For starters, a "sewer" can refer to one of two things. First is a storm drain, a system for carrying rainwater and snowmelt off the streets and into a nearby body of water. Second is a sanitary sewer, where the pipes from homes and buildings empty their wastewater, leading to sewage treatment facilities. There are places where the two overlap, but when this article refers to sewers, it is most likely referring to the latter.

In real life, most modern sanitary sewers consist of pipes too small for an adult to enter. They typically range from a few inches in width coming from individual properties, to about 2-3 feet wide in the street. Even these largest ones can at best only be crawled through, and then only if they are currently empty.

Older sewer systems may consist of underground canals with narrow walkways on the side. These canal systems are the basis of this trope, but very few creatures, humans especially, would actually be able to survive in sewers for any extended length of time. It's pitch black (sewer workers bring their own lighting), chilly even in the summer (50-60 degrees year-round), and there's little oxygen and a plethora of noxious gases from sewage, making the air highly unsuitable for breathing without specialized equipment.

Sewers featured in video games and any other form of fiction, however, are usually absurdly spacious underground rivers with ample room to move, enabling characters to avoid stepping into the actual sewage (often a good thing, since in many games, contact with sewer water is inherently harmful). These underground passages have more in common with the catacombs of Paris than any actual sewer system. The dim lighting, labyrinthine passages, and resident rats and alligators provide the perfectly suitable setting for heroes to chase criminals and/or monsters through. Occasionally, the place is so big people elect it as their home. It's not unusual to find whole shanty towns built in ludicrously large sewer or ex-sewer canals, coming close to transforming into an underground city. And somehow there's always adequate lighting, warmth, and breathable air. Presumably, there's no bodily waste down there because nobody poops.

Such sewers also tend to be connected to a multitude of locations throughout the city, accessed through manholes with easily removable lids (in real life, manhole covers are heavy and lack obvious handles to prevent this exact thing), granting access directly into otherwise secure buildings: a perfect way for suspicious types to travel without detection, noxious fumes notwithstanding.

In fantasy or historical fiction, this trope becomes anachronistic. Until the Industrial Revolution, the preferred method of waste removal was pouring it into ditches in the street where the rain would wash it away (sooner or later). However, this could be justified by fantasy societies (such as dwarves) that are more industrialized than their medieval human counterparts.

This trope may coincide with the much narrower sinister subway, and both are generally connected to the all-encompassing dungeon town. For an alternate route, see the air-vent passageway. These are all standard issue for the alcatraz. And don't forget the Abandoned Maintenance Tunnels.

Real life spacious sewers do exist. See IAMA Drainer. In practice, the "underground tunnel network where homeless people and thieves live" of urban lore does exist in a few industrialized cities. They are usually a system of technical tunnels built to accommodate water from various sources, electrical cables, storage spaces for the underground rail systems, and so on. The reason for its spacious construction being the fact it has to allow maintenance workers and sometimes their vehicles to run inside.

Compare unnecessarily large interior and underground city.

