Looking for a place to set the disaster of the week/alien invasion/supervillain's base/origin of the bad guys etc? Well, you can use the classics: new york, tokyo, london or paris for the first three and places like russia, North Korea or the Middle East for the last. Of course, you may think that's too cliché. Another alternative is having the last three take place in a fictional town in the middle of nowhere and have the villains come from some equally-fictional ruritania or qurac.

Or you may take a third option. Have the center of the plot be in an actual place, but some relatively harmless semi-known non-exotic location which makes you ask "why there, of all places?". That is the basis of the trope. Are aliens landing in ufos? They'll land in johannesburg, south africa, or roswell, new mexico. Is there a neighborhood full of world-class martial artists with superhuman powers? It's in Luxembourg. Is there a hellmouth opening? It's opening in cornwall. Is there a magical gateway between worlds? It's in cleveland. one of them, anyway. Is there a mysterious gigantic cavern hidden just beneath the earth's surface, wherein aliens once upon a time created all life on earth? It's underneath sugarloaf mountain.

This is sometimes played for laughs, though in most cases it rather realistically points out events do happen in the world outside its largest cities. The trope namer is Doctor Who and subsequent spin-off Torchwood. This is due to the fact that the revived Doctor Who was produced by bbc wales. Though Cardiff very often found itself doubling for london, new york city, Space, or the Scottish Highlands for that matter. May also happen as a type of author appeal, when the author is a native of that location. Such an author may also prefer to write what he knows.

An author writing about their own country and for their own country may be seen as such by foreigners, even if it was not the original intention. For example, an Argentine sci-fi author writes a comic about an alien invasion that lands in buenos aires. Aliens in Buenos Aires? For an Argentine reader, it's buenos aires is the center of the universe. For a reader from elsewhere, it an "Aliens In Cardiff" story.

Not to be confused with aliens of london (though this doesn't mean they are mutually exclusive), nothing exciting ever happens here (where the location is just generically boring). Contrast with canada does not exist, where it's forbidden to name the semi-known location, as well as washington d.c. invasion, when the aliens don't feel like faffing around and cut right to the chase.

