Amusement parks are popular locations for confrontations, probably because there's so much neat stuff to play around with:

 The roller coaster gives our hero a chance to show off their reflexes.

 The ferris wheel. Not for acrophobics.

 The haunted house. Forget the plastic spiders and fake-looking animatronic ghosts, there's an actual scary villain in there somewhere!

 Carnival games to show off the heroes' skill (or lack thereof) with guns or throwing.

 And, of course, the The amusement park is often abandoned or just closed for the night, which is an easy way of making things creepier, but it may also be open for business with the villain hiding in the crowd.

If it's abandoned or haunted, see circus of fear.

If the villain has booby-trapped the park (or has actually built the park for nefarious purposes), it's an amusement park of doom.

See also souvenir land for the not-so-exciting version and theme park for when it becomes more of a medium. Compare pinball zone.

 The events of the first episode of  The  One episode of   Clovisland in  In  In       The silent film   Featured as a backdrop for a spy meeting in the  In the movie version of  The Ferris wheel at Vienna's Wurstelprater amusement park is where  Pacific Playland, the fictional site of the climax in  Retroland in  Climax of  Wonder World in  Wally World in  The Delos resort in  The 1977 disaster/suspense film  An early example can be found in the 1927 silent movie  The titular street gang in  The home movie    The town of Big Cabbage on the Sto Plains in the     In  The Japanese  An abandoned amusement park was the site of the final convergence and showdown in  The    As does the "Party Land" pinball table in    The "Psycho" table of  Some games set entirely at an amusement park:

 Carnival Night Zone in  Witchyworld in  Krazy Kremland in  Pinna Park in    A very twisted amusement park is featured in a level of  The fifth chapter of    The   In The Slayground, other criminals once cornered Parker in an amusement park.

 The  Specter Land in  In  One of the maps included in the DLC for  Le-MU in    Played with  Baby Park from   Sora's version of the Prankster's Paradise world in   Clown Man's stage in  Magic Man's stage in   One is present in the second level of  Towards the end of Season 2 of  Similarly, Coney Island played the role of battleground in the  Coney Island shows up again in  The  In the world of  An interesting coincidence:  The  The final level of the game on  On    