A top-secret United States Air Force base in the Nevada desert... until 2013, when it was revealed to be a test site for spy planes. (Unless that's what They want you to think, of course.)

In fiction, this is usually associated with the otherworldly and all manner of government conspiracies. The most popular theory is that aliens and spacecraft (particularly those recovered from roswell, new mexico) are being held and studied there. If any of this tech has seeped into common human use, the assertion may be made that e.t. gave us wi-fi. Characters will often out-right deny the existence of the base, despite its existence and uses prior to Roswell being relatively well-known and even documented.

In real life, Area 51 is an Air Force base of some kind (in the middle of another base's bombing range, no less), officially known as the US Air Force Flight Test Center, and also known by the nicknames Groom Lake (for the dry lakebed the runways are on), Dreamland and Neverland. The more popular nickname stems from the naming system for areas involved in the Nevada atomic weapons testing; "Area-XX" was the default system for naming regions within or near the testing range, and the base was located in "Area 51" according to this system. The location was chosen due to the lakebed, which made an ideal landing strip when Lockheed Martin needed to relocate its Skunk Works; the base has the longest purpose-built runway in the world, though it appears to have been partially decommissioned following the U-2 spyplane project. It's been used in the past to test extremely secret experimental aircraft, which is probably the source of some of the rumors. What's going on there now (if anything) is way beyond your security clearance, and US maps as well as Google Maps (but not Google Earth, oddly enough) just show a big blank over the area. The closest anyone has gotten to revealing what goes on at Area 51 was a lawsuit brought by workers at the base due to unsafe conditions — apparently, Area 51 has no osha compliance — but the suit was thrown out of court when the state secrets privilege was invoked. It has been pointed out by many that the government has to develop secret (from other governments) projects somewhere, even if those projects have nothing to do with otherworldly things.

The secrecy surrounding the base makes it a tempting subject for real-life conspiracy theorists and speculative fiction writers alike. Some stories make an important plot point of the true goings-on in Area 51, while others just allude to it as a historical in-joke. Proof of how evil and devious the complex is can be seen in how intruders are dealt with; using a system of buried motion sensors and guys in jeeps, they, um...Well, they call the lincoln county sheriff, who escorts the intruders back outside.

There is also an "Area 52", the Tonopah Test Range. This was home to a now-declassified cold war program called "Constant Peg", involving American pilots training against real MiGs, small numbers of which had been delivered by defectors.

Dulce Base, a similar underground government base in northwestern New Mexico, has begun to take the place of Area 51 in the conspiracy theorist/UFO enthusiast circles as the shroud of secrecy surrounding the latter has faded. Indeed, some go as far as to claim that Area 51 conspiracy theories are all just disinformation designed to focus people's attention on a fairly non-exotic facility. So far, it's presumed that Dulce is actually just an urban legend. Then again, Area 51 was thought to be an urban legend, right up until the Soviet Union released satellite taken photographs of it...

And in August 2013, the CIA declassified a document talking specifically about Area 51. president obama even joked about it a few months later.

 Lot 51 (Army Corps of Engineers Secret Base, Nevada) makes a brief appearance in the   Area 51 is apparently among the secrets in the Presidents' Book in   In  In the  In   An episode of  On  In the  On   On   And there's the   The   The Rail Shooter,   A pair of guys in the web comic  The  In the  At the beginning of     In  In the direct-to-TV  "Crucial" is stretching it, but   Robert Doherty's  Most novels by  In  In   The "Little Green Men" episode of   Featured in the  The song "Faaip De Oiad" by   The final mission sequence of   The Area 51 appears in the park known as "Witchyworld" in     In   Area 51 is a field in  The arcade games  A 2005 first-person shooter, not to be confused with the above, was also titled  Adding an additional 15, Area 66 is  There's an Area 51 level in the fourth episode of  In  In  Area 51 is one of the places you can visit in the desert in  In Treyarch's continuity of the  In    Jix and Lauren in  In    In   Area 52 is where the monsters in   As the name suggests, the  In  The animated film  In an episode of  An episode of  An episode of  One episode of   