Just like bridges, crossroads often feature as the setting for portentous happenings - there's something symbolic about the (often ancient) intersection of two paths that gets people's imaginations going. Often they are used to represent the intersection between two worlds.

Crossroads also tend to represent places where a character can make a life changing decision, especially if there is conflict over which path to take.

This is very popular with fairy tales - especially associated with the devil or the fair folk. This is a common place for a deal with the devil. The crossroads are often chosen for safety, as there's a vague idea that ghosts, sprites and demons may find them confusing to navigate.

 In  One of the characters of    In  This is where the brothers meet  Near the end of  The 1986 Ralph Macchio movie  It is in a crossroad that not only Buster and Fred meet in  The Angel of Death in  In  There was a long-running British  In  The   Tamora Pierce's series of books set in the Tortall universe has the big gods, like Mithros (war and justice), and the Goddess (fertility, women, agriculture), but it also has minor gods like Weiryn (god of the hunt for a small mountainous area), and rather hilariously a god of  Alan Gordon's medieval mystery  Dean Koontz' novella "Strange Highways" has the protagonist, Joe Shannon, change his life when he returns to a crossroads where one of the roads, destroyed 20 years before, is there again. Naturally this is the one he takes.

 Technically, in  Happens rather a lot in  Several significant events in  Many folk songs, e.g. The Devil Went Down To Georgia, and Widdecomb Fair.

   Miwa Gemini's song "Crossroads" references the myth in its lyrics: "Don't go to the crossroad / a ghost is there, waiting for you", and "Don't sell your soul to the Devil / you know I love you so much".

 The 'devil at the crossroad' myth is     "The Crossroads of Destiny" is the name of the season 2 finale of  In an episode of  In  There is a crossroads in front of Castle Oblivion in  Shepard is faced with a crossroads on the Citadel at the very end of     The  Voodoo in particular has a fascination with the crossroads as symbolism. Papa Legba is the lwa of the crossroads that serve as the boundary between the living and the dead. Kalfou, his evil side is also associated with them.

 There are old legends that vampires and other supernatural creatures must be buried at a crossroads.

 Also, folklore tells us vampires get disoriented (or even driven mad) at crossroads, and cannot tell one direction for another. Urban vampires seem to have developed a strong resistance to this weakness, especially those that frequent downtown districts.

 There was an old German folk belief that a man can turn into a werewolf if he goes at a full moon's night to a crossroad, wearing nothing but a belt made of a wolf's pelt. At midnight, the transformation will happen.

 According to legend,  Criminals were sometimes executed at crossroads, then buried there. Likewise, people who committed suicide and were therefore unqualified to enter Heaven were buried at a crossroads when available. Certainly those suspected of being vampires (also unqualified) were.  Note that in the ages before exact maps, standardized road signage, Google Earth and GPS systems, crossroads indeed had an inherent danger: Take the wrong road, and you end up hundreds of miles away from where you wanted to go. (Of course, in some cases this may have led to a better life for the people involved.) Still not surprising that people started to associate crossroads with fear.

And that has made all the difference.