Poor Alice. She's lost her grip on sanity. She's stark raving mad. Surely what she needs to get well is a sleek modern psychiatric facility with freshly-washed sheets, nice nurses, and friendly doctors, just like the one britney spears keeps getting checked into.

Just kidding! What Alice needs is Bedlam House, a dark, dank insane asylum straight out of the mid-18th to 19th century, staffed by mad doctors and psycho psychologists. lobotomies in aisle four, sadistic nurse ratched figures please report for surgery, slow descent from minor quirks in cloudcuckoolanders to sitting in the corner mumbling cryptic phrases about things man was not meant to know and eldritch abominations will begin after your four o'clock slop from the creepy orderlies.

Modern psychological techniques do not exist. Electroshock therapy is handed out like lollipops at the doctor's office - and unlike modern, painless electroshock, we're talking high voltage screaming shocks. Those padded walls haven't been scrubbed in weeks and even if they had been, the inmates would just keep writing on them. And sure, there may be straitjackets in the wardrobe, but patients are just as likely to be chained to the wall. Abandon all hope, ye who enter Bedlam House!

After the nickname of Bethlem Royal Hospital, the first psychiatric hospital in the world. First turned into a "madhouse" in 1403, by the 18th century it had basically become another part of London's entertainment industry. for a penny (or free on the first tuesday of the month), visitors could watch the inmates' antics, and bring long sticks to "poke and enrage" them. Seriously.

Bethlem Royal is still active, albeit having undergone multiple relocations, and is now, according to wikipedia, at the forefront of humane psychiatric treatment.

Probably a case of truth in television, as a mental patient's defining feature is his/her failure to conform to the relatively lax social norms of the outside world. The stricter rules of an asylum naturally tend to accentuate that particular character trait, leading to a predictable escalation.

