new york city seems to get all the attention in American fiction.

Are aliens landing in UFOs? They'll land in Queens. Is there a neighborhood full of world-class martial artists with superhuman powers? That's Chinatown. ultimate showdown of ultimate destiny? Madison Square Garden's got your front-row seats. A magical gateway between worlds? Look in Queens Midtown Tunnel... or even Central Park. And, of course, look out for the mage in manhattan.

The rule seems to be that if a series or movie proposal does not require another setting (kirk's rock, for instance), it should be set in New York. If an original, successful series is set in Las Vegas, its spin-off will be more successful if set in New York. If you can't possibly get the show to happen in New York, have at least one main character (and as many minor ones as possible) be from New York, and continually harp on about how much better New York is than wherever the setting takes place.

In other words, everything is better with a side helping of Big Applesauce.

At the very least, New York is where a great many writers live, or come from (the rest reside in los angeles), which makes it more interesting to the writers than anything elsewhere. Not to mention "writing what they know."

The bias is especially obvious when characters speak about specific parts of New York casually (everybody in the world knows which subway train you have to take to get to 115th street, right?), while the entirety of Middle America usually consists of about ten distinct places, or when any group of people naturally includes a jewish person, because isn't one eighth of the population everywhere Jewish? (And even in NYC itself, the Jewish population is exaggerated; all things being equal, you are much more likely to meet a person of Irish, Italian, African, or Puerto Rican descent.)

There is a reason for this: the skyline is just so darn recognizable. In addition, New York City is the most populous metropolitan area in the United States (and the 4th most populous in the world), possibly justifying the frequency with which events of great significance occur there in fiction. Further justification for this is New York's diversity. Very close to every single ethnic, racial and religious group is is represented to some degree or another on the streets of the five boroughs, and nearly every language spoken on Planet Earth can be heard there. Although most US cities are cosmopolitan to one degree or another, New York is particularly noticeable due to the larger population, thus making the diversity more obvious. Further helping matters is the fact that New York is a major hub for business, finance, politics, culture, etc., which makes it that much easier to set stories of all sorts there.

It is worth pointing out a lot of NYC streets aren't actually filmed there; more than one California studio (and some other studios outside the US) has a dedicated NYC backlot.

Compare fulton street folly, the localized version where everything inexplicably happens in Lower Manhattan because it's relatively easy to film there. See also tokyo is the center of the universe for anime and Japanese TV, britain is only london for UK productions, and hong kong for Chinese-language equivalents. If the writers pick someplace off the beaten path instead, you've got aliens in cardiff.

If a story depicts New York as an unlivable hellish wretched hive (and is usually set during the period from the mid 1960s through the early 1990s), the sub-trope of Big Applesauce, the big rotten apple, comes into play. See also brooklyn rage.

If a story is set in a Big East-Coast Metropolis but is deliberately cagey about whether it's New York or Toronto, that's canada does not exist.

