Sometimes a town grows very rapidly, doubling in population or more in a very short time. In the wild west, this often happened around gold or silver strikes, or where water was discovered in an arid area. While the rapid expansion lasts, the community is a boom town.

Boom towns tend to have a lot of new construction, much of it ramshackle, to house the new residents and businesses. In westerns, most of the businesses will be saloons, gambling halls, and other entertainments designed to get the newfound wealth of the residents into the business owners' pocket. Churches and schools will come later, with the maturation of the town.

Often, the growth of the town will attract undesirable elements, leading to lawlessness and the need for law enforcement to clean it up. Certainly, any boom town is likely to be an adventure town.

Since a boom town often relies on a single resource or attraction, if that dries up the town will start dying, quite possibly becoming a ghost town.

Note that several works have used the title "Boom Town" to refer to communities about to blow up. Not the same thing.

Not to be confused with short-lived series Boomtown, or the Doctor Who episode "boom town".

 In  Like all Western tropes, it was parodied in  In  The page quote comes from an  The town in the western spoof  No Name City in   In   The obscure Venezuelan novel  Tell Sackett founds one of these almost inadvertently in the  Holy Wood in the   Rumson Creek in  The eponymous Mahagonny on  One of the most extreme examples is Jeuno in   The town of Township (yes, that's its name) from  Your castle in  A game-spanning sidequest in  Container City in  Newcastle in  The City of Luin becomes this in  The  Preston Springs in  Constantinople (now Istanbul) sprang up just about overnight when Constantine decided to make it the new capitol of the empire.

  Sunomata Castle was built (or at least repaired to full functionality) in one night.

 Tombstone was a boom town around the time of Wyatt Earp, which is covered in many movies.

 St. Petersburg is arguably a subversion, since it was built over the course of several years; on the other hand, as soon as it became the capital, it was filled with many more people than it could support, including many, many construction workers.

 "Residence cities" (i.e. the seats of royal courts) throughout the pre-modern history of most of Asia. There were a lot of those; many of them were founded and abandoned overnight on the ruler's whim (some Indian dynasties preferred to abandon the old capital and move a new one whenever a new ruler arose).

 Shenzhen, China is probably the uber example. 30 years ago there was almost nothing there. Not a city, not a town, barely a fishing village. Today it's got 7 million people, is the third largest city in the entire country and, quite possibly, the richest. How you ask? Magic, of course!. The magic of being just on the mainland side of Hong Kong when China decided to open up as well as a pet project of the premier.

 The mining towns in the Klondike circa 1899.

 Ireland in the 80s was a million miles away from Ireland of the 00s. A lot the people who moved abroad to find jobs had by now come back, which attracted a lot of property developers. This led to an entire country almost solely based on a housing bubble. Suffice to say, we're not a boom country any more.

 Soviet "Monotowns". Basically, a manufacturing plant, factory or mine was built in the middle of nowhere, and then a town was built around it. Resulted in a lot of troubles in   The advent of hydraulic fracturing led to the oil boom in places like North Dakota. Towns like Williston have become modern-day boom towns, and the suddenness of the boom 