In the spirit of joker immunity, the judicial/incarceration system in fiction will be just as worthless as the police. It may keep certain villains off the street so that the heroes just have to deal with one at a time (except for those occasional "teaming up" deals), but expect them to bust out real soon or find a very sympathetic parole board.

In the real world, voters would be demanding crackdowns. In fictionland, the same person can break out hundreds of times and nobody gets fired. In some cases, they also have policies against re-arresting escaped villains out shopping unless they commit another crime during the same episode.

Perhaps a necessity in stories which feature a rogues gallery, since you need to find a way to keep bringing them back but have the heroes seem somewhat effectual. This was particularly true in comics in the days when the comics code held sway — the villain had to be clearly defeated at the end of each and every appearance, requiring an escape from either incarceration or apparent death before he could show up to vex the heroes again.

In some cases, a Cardboard Prison can also serve as an tailor-made prison that's just waiting to be opened.Also known as houdini's postulate.

Contrast with luxury prison suite (in which the character might not want to leave prison, because of how nice it is), might as well not be in prison at all (in which the character doesn't have to leave the prison to remain a threat), and play-along prisoner (in which the character doesn't currently want to leave the prison, but could if and when that changes). Also contrast the alcatraz, which actually is hard to escape from, but possible (see great escape). A tailor-made prison is specifically designed to hold a character who could easily escape an ordinary prison, and involves some form of power nullifier. This problem is frequently solved via self-disposing villain, and the occasional heel-face turn.

See also unsafe haven, where instead of a prison being laughably easy to break out, a sanctuary is laughably easy to break in.Not to be confused with "get out of jail free" card.

