Whenever an obstacle arises in an action or adventure story, it is usually this. Often encountered on the way into mordor, it is also found in urban settings. cliffs of insanity can be natural or man-made; if the latter, they may involve le parkour or a clock tower.

What they all have in common, however, are the invisible arrows shouting "The plot goes this way." To simply go around (or take the elevator/tram ride) would be inconceivable. One must take them head-on; and just to be sporting, with whatever safety equipment they didn't think to bring along with them ahead of time.

Whether or not he was known to be in the area, the villain will invariably Cut The Rope before the hero can make it to the top. Fortunately, the hero will grab a ledge or something and reappear. He/she will invariably need an assist for the last 5 feet of the climb. If the hero or villain is being pursued, he will invariably pick the tallest point in the landscape and climb that (although that is a trope in itself). And at some point in the climb, expect to see a plummet perspective to emphasize the danger if the climber should fall.

This is a super trope dealing with Insane Precipices. This deals with the strange properties of these (mostly) fictional features, such as their apparent unavoidability. Bizarrely averted in role playing games by insurmountable waist high fence, which is the opposite of this trope. Usually involved in a climbing climax. Not to be confused with mountains of madness.

See also it's all upstairs from here.

                  In  The  The embassy in  The Statue of Liberty in   In  In    The stairs of Cirith Ungol in  In    In  In  The classic children's story  There's only one way out of the isolated seaside village in  In  In the Season Four finale of   This is a common task on  In an episode of   The infamous 1972 crash of Uruguayan Air Force Flight 571. K2 is the world's second highest mountain and considered a more difficult climb than Everest due to the extremely steep and technical climb. Also it tends to have powerful storms that last several days. There is a reason it has the second highest fatality rate of any mountain.

 Trango Tower in Pakistan, pictured above, a collection of needle-shaped monoliths, is the world's tallest sheer cliff.

 Yungas Road of Bolivia (usually referred to as  El Capitan and Half Dome in Yosemite National Park most definitely qualify.

 During the Invasion of Normandy during  Devil's Tower (Bear Lodge) in Wyoming is climbed by many people. Looking up a tit, it even looks like the cliffs if Insanity.

 China's  You climb some high cliffs at two points in  The cliffs to Manhannan's house in  The Cliffs of Logic in  The cliffs in  The Cliffs of Madness in  The ladder sequence in  This has to be done in order to get the Blue Feather in  