A Close-Knit Community — whether a village, a scattering of country farms, a city neighborhood — is a place where people know their neighbors and look after them.

It is not an ensemble or team — not even one like a traveling circus — because the characters do not have a common purpose except on occasion, and incidentally. Most of the time, they go about their own purposes. Their leaders act as leaders only in crisis, and merely as reasonable authority figures in ordinary time. It also tends to be larger than most true companions and other groups — large enough that many residents are only bit characters. While it can range from poor to prosperous, it is seldom if ever rich, and the characters are mostly settled in it, with few moving in or out. The widowed may remain there instead of returning their families because they know they can get help there, and their families would be colder.

They lack the privacy of less close-knit communities, the gossipy hens often get word around, but then, if they don't know what is happening to you, how can they help you? And sometimes their help can feel somewhat restricting. can't get away with nuthin'  has its unpleasant side.

quirky town is always one; even ones that aren't quirky often have a high tolerance for eccentrics, town drunks, and other unusual and/or dysfunctional — but mostly harmless — characters. arcadia is also always a Close-Knit Community, if the matter comes up; it is more likely to come up when Arcadia is contrasted to a vice city rather than a deadly decadent court. The wrong side of the tracks can also be close-knit, in which case it is not the wretched hive, and even holds down the crime rate by their quick action against it. This can even be true in a vice city, though it is not common, and the community tends to be poorer and have more crime than other close knit communities, because they can only contain the city to a certain extent; on other hand, they will often need each other's support after crimes. crystal spires and togas and other ideal cities are more likely to contain neighborhoods of them, than be them, since the characters have to know each other. Common in the towns of the western.

hidden elf village can also be one. Characters in this community do not have to be welcoming.

However, a town with a dark secret does not qualify, since all the townsfolk are united in the purpose of keeping their secret, and probably with the activities involved in it — and similiarly with an uncanny village. A wrong genre savvy protagonist may take one of those for this trope, or this trope for one of those, or the story may have such a fake out.

Because of their mutual support, plots involving the Close Knit Community either

 Imperil the community, so they have to defend themselves, or have  Have a youngster not appreciate it.  Have an outsider — often one burned out on  As a safe setting for  One Budweiser extolls the neighborhood.

 In  In  In  The setting of   Invoked in the  In  Haven, from  The Hassidic diamond sellers district in the  The Greek community in  Bedford Falls in  The   Haven from  District 12 from  It's mentioned several times throughout the   On  The Ramblings in  The Prelapsarians in  In  In  In  In  Although  Similarly,   The Hooverville in the   Mayberry on  Portwenn in   Little Tall Island from  Stars Hollow from     Kithkin villages in the Lorwyn setting of   Harmonica Town in  Link's hometown could count as this in most of the games, notably  In  Mechanicsburg in  In  In  In  In  In   Somewhat true of Springfield in  In  "A friendly desert community where the sun is hot, the moon is beautiful, and mysterious lights pass overhead while we all pretend to sleep. 