In horror and adventures movies, any subterranean area must be filled with quantities of web curtains, overflowing with colonies of mad spiders on speed who quickly fill every nook with webs, like an arachnid Mardi Gras. Catacombs, caves, basements, tombs, underground ruins (but not, oddly enough, underground levels), etc. show this, even though these are rather hostile environments for web-building spiders. Although collective or very large webs are known, they occur outside. Not to mention that such large webs in such quantities are useless: Webs are delicate in order not to be too visible. The type of spiders usually shown are unlikely to build webs of that type anyway.

May be used in any kind of story to indicate that no one has been in a place for a long time. If the character is retrieving something, the object will be covered with cobwebs to show that no one has touched it in a long time.

Note the subtrope that people never get too covered with them: They seem to be easy as pie to clean off in the absence of water, except for the stylish bit that gets stuck to the hair or hat.

Can overlap with you have to burn the web, extremely dusty home.

  Due to  Used cleverly in  Nearly averted in  Other spider-themed horror movies which feature these include     In  Joked about in the 1963 Roger Corman comic Poe film  Despite taking place both in a jungle-esque environment, and in caverns the   Played for laughs, like everything else, in  Played with in the first  Take to extremes in  Shelob's lair from JRR Tolkien's  In  The indispensable servants to vampires and mad scientists, the  One episode of  In the very first episode of  In   The eponymous house in  In the Abandoned Mineshafts that can be found in  Caves in  Heavily present, but arguably justified in  In  The Wesrin's Cross level in  The "Arachni's Haunt" dungeon of  Some dungeons, especially the Great Deku Tree in   The Varrock Sewers dungeon in     The first  The bug-type gym in  In  Not only is the Great Owl's lair in  One of   In Pakistan, spiders trying to escape floodwaters were driven into trees, creating  This is a real thing here in Florida, USA thanks to various orb-weaver spiders, and some are known to build communal webs. In wild areas not frequented by people it is very easy to come across this trope. They still occur outside though.

 The caterpillars of several Ermine moth species of the Yponomeuta genus weave thick webs around whole trees to be able to devour all the leaves, protected from competing species and predators. The result looks like a gigantic cobweb encompassing an entire (often dying) tree.

 