See also our article on the history of the cold war for more detail.

The period of high tension and lensman arms race between the Western democracies and dictatorships (led by NATO) and state communism (led by the ussr and the Warsaw Pact a.k.a the "eastern bloc", with China kind of aligned with them 'til the Sino-Soviet split of '60. The nature of the 'war' means it didn't have a beginning or end as such, but Churchill's "iron curtain" speech of 1946 to the Malta meeting of 1990 are popular dates. red october is the earliest start-date, the latest end-date being 25/12/1991, when Mikhail Gorbachev resigned and the USSR was officially dissolved. There was no direct fighting between the two superpowers although many indirect conflicts flared up, with one or both sides backed by one or both superpowers (korea, vietnam, The iran–iraq war, The , Afghanistan, etc).

Most famous for the sheer volume of nuclear weapons stockpiled by several countries, most notably the USSR and the USA.

Highly influential in many a spy drama during this period, as setting or back story, such as Airwolf, The A-Team, etc.

Standard plot in western media involves U.S. as goodies, USSR as baddies (of course, it is vice versa in russian media). You could also have general ripper come in and accuse our heroes of being commie spies; or a third party trying to spark the war between two superpowers. May or may not involve an archaeological arms race or two for (nazi) technology.

Now much harder to use for plot ideas, unless you're using missing ex-Soviet weapons as a weapon of mass destruction or unemployed Soviet scientists to develop it. Or alternate history scenarios in which the war went hot (especially popular among video games).

So what actually happened? To avoid cluttering the article, this will get a separate entry: history of the cold war. However, broadly speaking, the history of conflict between the West and the Soviet Union can be divided into six sections:

 1917-1930: Starts in  1931-1945: A period of reduced tensions between the USSR and the rest of the world as Imperial Japan's lurch to the right wing and the rise of Fascism and Nazism in the wake of the Great Depression led to some tentative contacts between the USSR and the non-communist and non-fascist powers.  1946-1962:  1962-1978: The period of détente. PRC-USSR relations worsen and the border clashes intensify, an all-out war between the two looks increasingly likely. You are more likely to see a  1978-1987: The "Second Cold War", with the PRC under Deng Xiaoping allying with the USA against the USSR and experimenting with opening up 'Special Economic Zones' along her coastline to capitalism. Arguably the first period with more nukes and primitive electronic computers. Direct  1987-1991: See also:



                    Due to its sheer length, the Cold War appeared by analogy in thousands of other works. See space cold war for examples. Also, the whole affair had so many confusing elements that conspiracy theorists are still arguing about it - see enforced cold war.

 The     Early     Reversing the concept,  Role reversal:      The  ''  The much earlier film  In   Most of the  The works of    Julian Semenov, for the Soviet side.

  Ralph Peters'         In  Soviet series  The FX show  The  The Klingons in the original  One episdoe of  Playing off Cold War tensions, many promoters would create Russian heels by taking ordinary Americans, giving them a Russian (or other USSR-state) accent and having him "promise" to destroy the lead pro-American face in the promotion he was working in. Many of the best known came well after the Cuban Missle Crisis, but still, villains like    One example of a role-reversal of the usual "West good, East bad" scenario is from the stage-musical    The first two   the        A very great many scenarios from the     In   In  Boris and Natasha, the spies from   East-West tensions are a major plot point in the  