

As a member of the fiction 500, you own an awesomely cool car, boat, plane, and a garage to keep them in, but where do you get your mail delivered? Where do you hang out when not on amazing adventures? A big fancy house? No, too normal. It must be a cool house.

To be a cool house, the standard suburban mansion or big fancy house just doesn't cut it. The cool house is wish fulfillment in real estate form. It might look like an ordinary home or something that wouldn't normally be used as a house, but in either case the briefest of tours of its features will reveal that it is no ordinary home.

To qualify for cool house status a dwelling should be sufficiently unique that any "normal" person aware of its full capabilities would be either in awe, concerned about the owner or designer's sanity, or concerned lest the house fall into the wrong hands. Thankfully cool houses are often protected by a weirdness censor.

In addition, it should have at least several of the following:

 Features that no sane, mundane person would expect to have in their home.

 A feature that no mundane person would be ABLE to have in their home.

Not to be confused with a popular television doctor.

 Youta Moteuchi from  SARAH from A house that looks completely ordinary, but hides such features as the roof pivots on a hinge to release an airship larger than the house, or some other equally unlikely thing The Fenton household in  Skeeve's flat on Deva (A house that looks spooky or odd, presumably the home of an eccentric at best. When you enter, you realize that the exterior of the house is the most normal thing about it   In the  Anubis House of  In the      Dr. Morbius' house in  In  First-time visitors to the   A house that doesn't even look like a house, but it sure is cool In  The  The Aerie, the Colorado cabin in   The TARDIS on   Syndrome's volcano home in  Dexter's house in  The house Marvin (John Malkovich's character) in the film version of A house with most (if not all) of the above Repellista Zahard's floating castle with the Opera light house from    The main characters' house in    Ghost Command, the   