While airships in general are cool, the cool airship turns this up to eleven. Most of the time, it will have an impossibly cool design which would most likely be unable to fly in real life. Fortunately, fiction has phlebotinum and/or hybrid designs (heavier-than-air airships that fly with some level of aerodynamic assistance from lifting bodies, wings, rotors, etc.) for that little problem. Cool Airships also tend to be exceptionally big, sometimes so big that they double as airborne aircraft carriers or even airborne cities.

The cool airship is the preferred method of travel for sky pirates and technologically-savvy nazis, and is extremely common in classic scientific romances and steam punk. Technically, airships are far more diesel punk, with regards to both style and overall use, but they were actually invented in the Victorian era. The first airship flew in 1852 and was propelled by, you guessed it, a steam engine. Yes, that means blimps were around before the radio,  and the lincoln administration.It's worth noting that not all airships are Cool Airships. For instance, the Goodyear Blimp is definitely not a Cool Airship. Like the cool car and the cool plane, the Cool Airship is exceptionally cool. Furthermore, it has to be owned by a major character, or otherwise play a prominent role, such as acting as the setting for a major scene. For massive cool points, it should be appointed like the Titanic, with a casino, bar, and a sultry chanteuse on board for the entertainment of the passengers. Military or pirate vessels are known to carry an internal aircraft hangar and lots o' guns. Either way, any Cool Airship worth its salt usually boasts an unnecessarily large interior. It goes without saying that they are usually commanded by a bad ass of some sort.

Unfortunately, with the destruction of the Hindenburg in 1937, airships mostly died out in real life, so there are few examples in that category, with most modern airships being used for advertising, tourism and surveillance. See our useful notes on airships for more information on these craft and their history. Today, it's unlikely that they'll ever make a big comeback and overtake other aircraft, since modern jets are 4-5 times faster and helicopters are more nimble. Then again, even in their heyday airships were never common, seen more as the pinnacle or the titan of aircraft, something rare and newsworthy. However, there is a budding renaissance of Cool Airships being built and tested for niche applications, for example replacing cargo helicopters at ten times the range and a tenth the cost. This is largely fueled by the new development of hybrid(heavier-than-air) airship technology, which gives them much higher payloads, greater speed and more resistance to foul weather. Some other good examples of hybrid airships would be the LEMV and the Aeroscraft.

See zeppelins from another world for airships being used to help show the viewers that something is set in an alternate universe or alternate history. The two can overlap, but zeppelins from another world are often just a background detail, and Cool Airships (including ones in speculative fiction) aren't always used to hint at an alternate universe setting. After all, some exist in real life.

A Cool Airship in fantasy or steampunk will often fall under artistic license - engineering, especially when it's not modeled after real-world zeppelins; things like having one or two tiny propellers or tiny decorative wings as the only source of lift are not uncommon. Of course, sometimes it's just magic.

A sub-trope of cool ship, and so a sister trope of cool boat and cool plane. Related to the square/cube law, hollywood density and balloonacy, depending on how it falls on the mohs scale of science fiction hardness. If it's a living ship, it's probably also a living gasbag.

See also global airship for the video game-specific variant.

And remember... IT IS NOT A BLIMP, it's an airship!

AIRSHIP!

