A setting which, at first sight, looks nice and cute. The world is full of cheery colors, people are smiling, happy and helpful, and you're probably thinking you've just stepped into a sugar bowl that seriously tastes like diabetes. Suddenly, you notice something wrong, and upon investigating, you realize that every single thing below the surface is horribly wrong and dysfunctional. Maybe the society is powered by a forsaken child. Maybe the cheeriness is maintained by totalitarian rulers that dole out horrible punishments for the slightest infractions. Maybe the bright and shiny part isn't the only part, and the more traditional crapsack world is kept hidden from the public eye. Maybe it's just a manufactured reality. Basically, this is a stepford smiler on the scale of an entire setting, where behind the colorful appearance it's really a crapsack world.

Compare with false utopia, when one of the main points of the story is the contrast of how perfect the world looks and how imperfect it truly is, town with a dark secret, peace & love, incorporated, light is not good, and stepford suburbia. Often involves fridge horror, sugar apocalypse, grotesque cute, and glurge. A Type B cynical portrayal of the promised land that isn't a used-up and barren wasteland is likely to be one of these.

See also city in a bottle, where crystal spires and togas meets government conspiracy, and soiled city on a hill, which can be a former shining city that retains its shiny exterior even though its heart has become corrupt and rotten. urban segregation can result in this if the viewer is initially shown only the utopian parts of the setting. A child-oriented adventure-friendly world is prone to being this.

Contrast with sugar bowl, the (usually) non-ironic version of this trope. Compare and contrast vile villain, saccharine show and the similar uncanny village wherein a would become a perfectly ordinary sugar bowl if its horrifying villain were removed, whereas a Crapsaccharine World is fundamentally rotten to the core. Contrast people's republic of tyranny, fauxtivational poster, and a world half full, where it looks like a crapsack world, but it can get better. happiness is mandatory can be this, but often fails to create even a pleasant veneer over things.

Note that this trope is about a setting. If the art style clashes with the mood of the work, that is art-style dissonance instead.

As this trope involves the revealing of a world's true nature, expect spoilers ahead.