The idea of a dimension having mystical effect on our own dimension is quite old. Sometimes the dimensional gateway would be a mirror or book. A computer screen is both of these.

Cyberspace — AKA Virtual Reality (VR) — just puts a modern spin on the idea.

Rather than go down the rabbit hole into a spirit world, the character puts on some VR goggles, plugs an ethernet cable into his skull, or gets "digitized" into data. What do they see when they go online? A pretty nifty 3D world, designed as a viewer-friendly interface made up of holographic terminals over a background full of matrix raining code superimposed over tron lines. Not only is everything online, you can expect "surfing" from one site/database to another to be handled with all the aesthetic aplomb of a design student's orgasm and to be completely lagless.

One curious alternative idea that seems to infest many cyberspaces is travel time... the metaverse of Snow Crash has people . This could be seen as the illogical conclusion to the increasingly graphical user interface design evolution from the concise but user-unfriendly command line to drag-and-drop windows and pointers and presumably to the final stages where your avatar crumples up your virtual document and walks over to the virtual bin with it. People in the future clearly have a phenomenal amount of patience with their user interfaces. Essentially, Cyberspace is stylized into a simulation that's virtually indistinguishable from real life, and less of a recreational pastime or tool.

If there are other webizens or hackers in cyberspace (not to mention ai's and ghosts), they will either be amorphous gobs of light, be completely outlandishly dressed (or have non-human avatars) because there are no physical limitations, or appear exactly as they would in real life (even wearing the street clothes they were wearing as they logged on).

Sometimes, a holodeck malfunction turns Cyberspace outright dangerous — not just online, but in real life, because your mind makes it real. It may take an orphean rescue to get those trapped out.

Frequently pops up in cyberpunk and post-cyberpunk settings. See also the metaverse, which is when society at large uses the Internet this way. Compare platonic cave. Also compare hard light, where Cyberspace can manipulate the physical world.

