A Death World is a highly dangerous place, where simply going there is considered taking your life into your own hands. It could be from hazardous environmental conditions, such as an acidic swamp or poisonous fog, or from powerful native predators (Here there be Dragons, or worse, something that eats them), dangerous flora, or even all of the above. It's like the entire place is deliberately hostile to human life. (Of course, if it's also a genius loci, it just might be!)

Very few people would ever choose to live there, but since anyone who does is almost always a badass, expect any populated Death World to be a world of badass by default. Sometimes, the obi-wan may hide out here. Alternately, it may be mordor, and/or home for an exceptionally tough and ferocious race. Some actually take advantage of this as a way of training their super soldiers on a planetary scale. Sure, half of the population might not survive through adolescence, but those who do should make good soldiers. Sometimes they are genetically engineered. Those who live on such a world may be an example of had to be sharp.

In real life, every planet outside Earth is dangerous, because we have yet to verify that any other planet out there can support human life. The difference is that fictional death worlds are more interesting. Generally this means they have a relatively breathable atmosphere, have a compelling reason for characters to get out and walk around, and have a variety of dangerous flora and fauna to menace them. A planet that cannot host human life for any amount of time is just "uninhabitable" and not actually a death world.

For more details, the various videogame settings actually do a decent job of describing the various kinds of dangers you might find in different ecosystems, since videogames almost universally have everything trying to kill you. The dark world is often a magical variant. Don't be too surprised if there are more predators than prey.

For examples of entire Death Universes, see crapsack world.

Not to be confused with a place worse than death, which refers to real life locations with bad publicity.

