The Deep South: home of fat redneck sheriffs, hillbillies, moonshiners, the klan, tobacco-chawin' good ol' boys missing half their teeth, and all other manner of corrupt hicks, not to mention fire-and-brimstone preachers, iron-bound matriarchs, white-suited plantation owners, southern belles in flouncy gowns or short-shorts with crop tops, and possums. Some kissing cousins could also be in the mix somewhere.

Although the real mid-Southern and Southeastern United States has a far wider range of locales and settings, the deep south as it appears on TV is usually one tiny rural town after another, separated by miles of farmland or steep, forested mountainsides. Its inhabitants always seem to be about fifty years behind the times, at least as far as social issues are concerned (or worse, stuck in the wild west era and/or fighting the the recent un-pleasantries). This trope has major unfortunate implications.

If you're a liberal urbanite from one of the coasts, then this is probably the last place on Earth you'd ever want to visit. Especially if you're an ethnic, religious, and/or sexual minority. In fact, it will be the last place on Earth you'll ever go to if you piss off the locals, since everyone — including the snarling, tobacco-chewing sheriff who glowered at you in the gas station — is quite happy to make your godless, yuppie ass disappear if they take a dislike to your demeanor. The only people in the Deep South who don't carry guns are the axe- or chainsaw-wielding serial killers.

This scenario is also used to depict the cultural differences between the south and the north. Ironically, in the days when Puritanism was widespread in New England, the south would often be looked upon - usually by new englanders, of course - as a land of moral laxity and even debauchery. It's worth noting, for example, that Christmas was celebrated as a public holiday in the South long before it was in New England, which the Puritans insisted had to be observed purely as a religious holiday because of the pagan origins of most secular Christmas traditions.

As an example; while pre-marital sexual encounters and casual one-night stands are common nowadays, sex is serious business down there, with Southerners still firmly believing on the golden rule of "marriage before sex"—or at least, "marriage before childbirth"—so do not try to knock up one of the local girls there, or you will be married to her for the rest of your life (Southerners are extremely averse to abortion and divorce). If the girl in question is a typical southern belle or a daisy duke, you are a really lucky guy; but if she is not any of these but a hillbilly as bucktoothed as the rest of their family (as in most of cases), you'll have to marry anyways; if you try to run away, they will stamp you out.

The highest figure of authority down there is the reverend of the local evangelical congregation (usually either Baptist or Pentecostal), leading to the zone being often called the "Bible belt"; And unlike the rest of the country, the moral guardians and the culture police are actually supported and respected. So don't complain about the military, don't admit that you think Queer as Folk was groundbreaking, don't try to explain how paganism has nothing to do with devil worship, and don't go out to the secluded farm house when your car breaks down in the rain... Unless the southern hospitality is being played up, that is.

People will often have two names, with men having the second name Bob (Jim Bob, Joe Bob, Billy Bob) and girls will have Mae (Billie Mae, Bobbie Mae, Bettie Mae).

Any part of the region that is not rural, backwoods, mountains, or bayous shows up on TV as merely the city or suburbia with an accent. The modern, sprawling metropolises of atlanta and Charlotte might as well not exist. And while Nashville and new orleans do exist, they're not without stereotypes of their own: N'awlins being a party city with the occasional vampire, and Nashville only known for country music despite its diverse population, large healthcare industry, and punk rock scene that rivals the country one in size. As far as writers — largely based in Southern California — are concerned, the only true South is the Deep South. And any old state down there will do. Mississippi, Georgia, Virginia, maryland...what's the difference?

This is where the southern-fried private comes from; the southern-fried genius is from here as well, although the South they know and grew up in is very often the "city/suburbia with an accent" flavor. Bordering texas has plenty of cultural overlap with the region, but is distinct enough to warrant its own page. florida is similarly complicated. Its rural areas are as Deep South as the rest of the region, but the major cities have their own quirks due to the influx of Northerners and Latin immigrants.

Outside southern Louisiana, the region usually averts christianity is catholic. Whether white or black, the churches are usually either Baptist or Pentecostal.

Compare flyover country and appalachia, as all three regions might as well be Jupiter for screenwriters from the coasts, and oop north, which often receives similar stereotypes in British media (though most of the "hick" sterotypes are associated with any rural setting in the UK. Generally, the west country or norfolk will have the greatest amount of them). Contrast sweet home alabama. For the vicious horror-themed version, try the savage south or southern gothic.

