The Union of American States began its existence as 13 rebellious colonial governments united only by their dislike of the central government's attempts to enforce taxation and one constitution. Two-plus centuries later, that hasn't changed a whole lot. It's a small miracle that a strong central government was formed—against the states' wishes—and has been maintained thus far, though there have been perceived and dangerously real close calls.

So now you're writing a story twenty minutes into the future, or perhaps in an alternate universe. How do you show that things have irrevocably but believably changed? Break up the Union. Perhaps the State suffered some sort of crisis of the type it's never really seen before, and then things went from bad to worse. Maybe the country was broken up by foreign invaders, dissent with an oppressive government led to a break, or maybe regional separatism and nationalism took hold as it kind of did the last time it broke up. For whatever reason, the country now consists of many smaller nation-states.

As a bonus, your hollywood atlas will seem a lot more authentic. The new and smaller nations, without the tempering influence of what voters on the opposite side of the continent think, will be able to run free with their own agendas, resulting in a bit of cultural flanderization that might actually seem justified. Thus you may see:

 The  A  The People's Republic of  The  The loud, proud, rather jingoist  The South has risen again to form the  The Southwest reclaimed by the   The  Alaska is fused with the Canadian territories to form another Inuit province, or the Russians take it back. In some cases, if Russia is in its   A  The Midwest and so on. More details below.

If you have trouble with the concept of a Balkanized America, consider the 38-state Union imagined by C. Etzel Pearcy, geography professor at California State University, Los Angeles, in 1975. Pearcy's strategy groups cities together based on population centers, shared services, and similarity of lifestyle (for example, the New York metro area would be one state, rather than expanding into New Jersey and using bits of Connecticut and Pennsylvania as suburbs), so they would make reasonable estimates of the territory each neo-state could control. On paper, such a concept could save the country billions each year, but the obvious political flame war makes it extremely unlikely.

after the end settings can sometimes have this on a more-factured scale, with a bunch of city-states that barely have any contact outside the random trade route. Odds are, most of them won't resemble the smoking husks they were built on at all, unless it was a cosy catastrophe.

A downplayed version of this trope can include mentioning this in the fiction's history, but never really going over overt detail of it. If a work refers to the historical Civil War as "the first American Civil War", or something of the like, this trope is in play.

If there's still an "official" U.S. government, but its control over the country is massively weakened, this can overlap with vestigial empire and is usually fallen states of america. See also invaded states of america. The polar opposite of this is expanded states of america, in which America instead grows larger. A subtrope of balkanize me. This can be combined with some form of punk punk.

