Dystopia is Ancient Greek for crapsack world (or more literally, "bad place"). The trick to creating a Dystopia is to take a sociopolitical issue and play it straight to the extreme (as in deconstructions) or turn it up to eleven, creating said crapsack world in the process. Better yet, do it with several issues, or perhaps all of them.

A dystopia is a social commentary literally in the background, as is a utopian setting. The two settings share a problem in sometimes being a little too one-note. The author is thinking "capitalism sucks!", for instance, and everything wrong with the world turns out be clearly the fault of nasty corrupt corporate executives and their nasty, greedy megacorporations. Conversely, it could be "governments suck!" and the corporations are the last line of defense against the evil, totalitarian bureaucrats. Whichever, it is just one note.

The better dystopias seem to be about how a multitude of things have gone wrong, and now here we are, surviving with as much grace as possible. It is also a practice in literature to create a dystopia through the deconstruction of an earlier creator's utopia, showing how horrible it is to live in one. Another use is to serve as a big bad for the hero and his friends to revolt against; these are more likely to be toppled, or at least escaped from, than others.

Some dystopias have its citizens living out dehumanized and often fearful lives, feeling the government's eyes upon them at every waking moment and afraid to step out of line for even a moment lest they be brutalized by the police or worse, taken away by the secret police. Other dystopias have the people as happy as any utopian world, but through government drug enforcement, the evils of free will or happiness in slavery. Some dystopias are empires with a dark secret, with those who find out about the secret often being released to elsewhere. Some are bread and circuses worlds where a minority of people are brutally repressed; any number of traits can mark out that minority (such as, say, reading books). And some Dystopias are such only for the law-breakers. One man's Utopia can easily be another man's Dystopia, and so on.

The Dystopian world may be obviously a dystopia and there is no effort made to hide the fact that the world is in fact a crapsack world. Frequently the heroes are constantly battling just to survive and the big bad is an evil dictator. Or it might be set up as Utopia but with fatal flaws. They are the less obvious Dystopias, ones where everyone appears to be happy, but there is just something wrong with it. This is the Brave New World level of Dystopia.

Expect curfews and bans on "love" to show up early in; they're a sure-fire cue card for oppression.

Occasionally, a fish out of water will seem to arrive in a utopia, only to find that it's really a dystopia for all but the elite.

May have peace & love, incorporated and getting smilies painted on your soul, and frequently have an ascetic aesthetic towards buildings. Compare with author tract, after the end, just before the end, villain world, and cyber punk. Contrast with utopia and mary suetopia, the latter often an unintentional Dystopia created by the author.

See dystopia is hard and artistic license - economics for one reason why certain Dystopias could not exist in reality (true oppression, especially of the Big Brother variety, is really expensive), and how people in general are resistant to the creation of a society that they believe is against their general well-being. For when someone is actually pursuing this type of society as an end in itself, see dystopia justifies the means.

For more types of Dystopias, see you would not want to live in dex. For the game, click here.

It might be noted that the term Dystopia, according to a strict definition, implies a fictional setting and precludes any possibility of real life examples. This is not, however, to suggest there is not a certain amount of truth in television to compare with fictional examples- for example, North Korea is sometimes compared to 1984, which in itself was based on the various real life totalitarian regimes that were around at the time of writing.

