A sister trope to the for want of a nail episode. While for want of a nail explores another fork in the road taken by a character, an Elseworld takes a well-known character and plonks them into a potentially wildly different location and situation. This can add some freshness to a character which allows them to act a different way than normal canon might allow but may also become an excuse to write professional transplanted character fic of the recycled in space variety.

Daring writers trusted by loyal fans may do this kind of episode without any warning or explanation. Well regarded elseworld stories generally involve 1) either keeping the characters and their motivations recognizable despite the new setting and situations or 2) working within the confines of the new setting in order to get back to the original premise in a reasonable way.

Comes from the term used by dc comics for these kinds of stories; they publish one-shots and mini series like this. Compare to alternate continuity. If a show is all Elseworlds all the time, you've got a commedia dell'arte troupe.

DC's Elseworlds are sometimes grouped into six categories. These categories can be applied outside of DC Comics, of course.

 Historical: The characters are transplanted into a historical context. Example:  Alternate Real-World History: Some element of real-world history is different. Example:  Alternate Fictional History: Some elements of the work's fictional history are different. Example:  Genre Graft: The work changes genre. Example:  Fiction Graft: The work is melded with a famous work of fiction. Example:  Potential Future: The story is set in a potential future of the setting. This tends not to be this trope as we use it here (since it's not an In fanfiction this is known as an Alternate Universe (or AU), where the characters generally remain the same but the setting changes. high school aus are very popular, probably because many of the writers are themselves in high school. (On This Very Wiki, we use a broader definition of alternate universe, of which Elseworld is a subset.) Not to be confused with elsword.

