

Despite what captain emotion and the emotioneers would have you believe, being emotional and caring is not in and of itself a good thing. In fact, the more emotional and less self controlled a character, the more likely they are to fall to the dark side. Conversely, the more stoic, composed, and self-denying a character the more likely they are to be good and in line with the force.

The reasoning boils down to this: Emotions are raw, powerful, and uncontrollable. A character who lets their heart or libido lead them is not rational and thus prone to temptation. Temptation of course takes many forms, and it is a slippery slope from there to full on villainy. On the other hand, heroes who exhibit self control are like a knight in shining armor, able to resist temptation and smite evil. It is worth noting that while evil can be refined, it is rarely ascetic.

However, there is a downside to extreme Stoicism: a lack of drive and at times a worrying lack of empathy. A completely composed Stoic runs the risk of not letting any human considerations weigh on their judgement. Essentially, without a bit of emotion to anchor them, the character may well float off into unreachable heights.

This is true not just for characters, but as a theme in setting. It does not need to be a world half empty, or even have a world with a balance between good and evil, just one where it is more likely that love leads to evil rather than redemption.The trope maker is the Hellenistic Greeks' philosophy of Stoicism, although they did not encourage self-denial so much as but abolishing the source of desire entirely, something that is also the goal of Buddhism - the quintessential Stoic did not at all lack emotions, much to the opposite, but rather endeavored not to be driven by their emotions (feel sadness but not grief, feel pleasure but not become addicted to it, etc). It also loosely correlates with the Bible's teachings of controlling the "flesh", which usually involves controlling ones' emotions and urges.

A red oni, blue oni pairing can invoke this. Compare romanticism versus enlightenment— Romanticism would encourage emotions, Enlightenment would encourage stoicism. Contrast straw vulcan and strawman emotional.

