A corridor is very, very long. No, longer than that. No, longer than that.

This is used to either make a place seem bigger than it should or could possibly be, or to save budget money. Sometimes it's a desert or an ocean or even more rarely, a forest.

Compare with scooby-dooby doors and games with looping world/nation/kingdom maps.

Hallway variety  The Virtual World in  When Sarah enters the eponymous  The service tunnels in  The massive office building where Sam Lowry works in  One exists in   Occurs twice inside the spaceship from  In  In  Appears in  The eponymous Fourth Dimension from  An episode of   The TARDIS in  In   In the live-action version of        The hallways of Eientei in the  The hallway before the final battle in  A slight outdoor variation of this exists in the original   The final level of the new version of  In some  The first dream sequence in  Like the looping maze dungeons in  In  In  The    In    During the tutorial level of   When in Faerieland in  The    MIT has an architectural feature known as the Infinite Corridor. Well, no, it's not actually infinite, and only about a quarter mile long, but it is a long hallway located right at the center of campus. Bonus points since, for one or a few days every semester, the sun will shine directly down the entire length of the hallway, an effect known as "MITHenge".

 Similar to MIT, the University of Leeds in the UK has the 'Red Route', known as the longest corridor in Europe. It's around a fifth of a mile long, all on one level, and acts as one of the main thoroughfares on campus for students. The university even offers audio tours for people interested in the history of the route and the buildings it passes through...

 The  The address of Apple Computer headquarters is 1, Infinite Loop. Said street is technically infinite since it loops onto itself.

Desert variety  The Endless Desert variety occurs in  Subverted in   Towards the end of the official multiplayer map for the first  All outdoor environments outside the city walls in  The second region of  The Desert of Death in  Used in   The forest mazes in the NES  In  One dungeon in  If you try to pass through the Sleeping Forest without first excavating the Lunar Harp in  Akandia in  Other/Miscellaneous Many, many, 