

Safely guarded from the muggle world that's so ignorant and hostile to it, the Fantastic Nature Reserve is one of (if not the) last refuge for mythical beings. Much like the bazaar of the bizarre, the Fantastic Nature Reserve will have many species of flora and fauna heard of only in myth and fairytales. Entire ecosystems may be preserved in lush "biomes", or individual beings kept in cages much like a zoo (which is likely to also have an evil Zookeeper).

It may be hidden somewhere deep in the dark, forgotten places of the world, in the labyrinthine corners of human city thanks to some powerful illusions, another dimension entirely, or even bravely visible to the world at large. If it's hidden, that's because there is safety behind the masquerade as a hidden elf village, and by banding together they can cooperate to fend off those pesky humans. If out in the open they may hope to survive by raising awareness of their existence, which may be exactly what's called for it the residents are subject to gods need prayer badly and clap your hands if you believe.

Another possibility is that the residents have formed this Reserve because mana is a part of their "diet," and with it becoming scarce in the muggle world they have to seek sources of magic and live near them. Because of this the Fantastic Nature Reserve is likely a settlement on the magical equivalent of a proven well. If this miniature cosmic keystone is stolen or destroyed, the Fantastic Nature Reserve will fall with it. Whether natural or artificial, the Fantastic Nature Reserve residents are likely fiercely protective of the place, its residents and its secrecy. Unless of course they're not there of their own free will.

It's also possible for a Fantastic Nature Reserve to be "person" made. A benevolent "zoo keeper" likely does this to preserve the uniqueness value inherent in these creatures and to protect them from poaching. The less altruistic collector may justify objectifying these creatures (whether sentient or not) on the basis that they're saving them from destruction. An outright evil zoo keeper will use them as shock troops and as a self-replenishing treasure trove of magical ingredients. It's easy to harvest eye of newt when you can apply healing factor laden troll blood to keep the newt from going blind.

 The Count's shop in  The Headmaster in  The Farm in   The island of Themyscira in post-crisis  Midian in   In  In    It's implied it's how fantastic creatures survive in  Camp Half-Blood in  For John Hammond,  The dragons are given these in  The Monstrumarium of    The Menagerie, in the  The BBC's   A  This is the premise of the  Dracula in basically every  In   In   The original  In    In an episode of  