It is difficult to be truly original when creating fiction, and even if one manages to pull it off, one runs the risk of putting off the audience by having one's creation seem too strange. Much safer, then, to make your setting contain human cultures that are take-offs of real ones.

This is especially common in fantasy settings, but by no means exclusive to it. It's often found in satire, as a means of indirectly poking fun at the culture in question. In such cases the countries may have significant names. This is why fantasy counterpart cultures can be full of unfortunate implications.

There are also sound literary reasons for using this trope. Making the Shire an idealized England transplanted to middle-earth makes it easier for readers to identify with the point of view characters, since they probably have much more in common with Bilbo than with Thorin. guy gavriel kay's The Lions of Al-Rassan is a thinly disguised historical novel, but changing the names of the countries and religions means the readers don't know how the story will end, helping to maintain dramatic tension.

Creating a completely new culture from scratch can be a daunting task. Thinking about everything the word culture encompasses - music, food, clothing, etiquette, dance, religion, and combative traditions, to name a few - can make one a bit more forgiving of such an artistic choice. It's also more easily justified in works containing humans: the real life counterparts of the fictional cultures have all actually come into existence and are the results of real groups of people coming together to build something over time. Basing a new society on one that's already had a turn at some point in human history can both help the audience relate and provide a creative framework to twist and turn said society into an interesting variant of its former self. This approach still has its risks, though - many Fantasy Counterpart Cultures are based on the theme park version of a particular region of the world, lacking both depth and originality. (See hollywood atlas.)

Compare with istanbul not constantinople, when a real place is referred to with a more archaic or obscure name (e.g. "Columbia" instead of "USA"). Compare also with days of future past, where a futuristic society duplicates (often explicitly and intentionally) the culture and styles of a historical period.

See also culture chop suey, space romans (and the more offensive version, space jews). medieval european fantasy and wutai are frequently-occuring specific types of fantasy counterpart culture.

