feudalism in space!!!kings and queens, princes and princesses, nobles, courts, knights (in powered armor or humongous mecha)....

A form of days of future past which can incorporate elements from the High Middle Ages right up to the Victorian Age. The chief characteristic is that social status is legally enacted and hereditary.

Occasionally we are told that the king/emperor is elected, but it makes no difference in their authority. Certainly we never see them running for re-election. (A clever writer could make it like the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, also elected, but such issues as who are the electors and who is eligible to run never come up.)

(Elected monarchy is fairly common in history, but was generally for life; it matters at the succession, not later.)

Among the commonest societies in space opera, planetary romance, and other forms of Science Fiction.

Falls into two categories:

 A planet has such a social structure. Often justified by having technological regression (but never further than medieval — not even to Roman times).

 A multi-planet, even interstellar society. Always has futuristic technology, of course, though it may involve Prone to medieval stasis, even though technology is far above medieval level. May also involve anachronistic items from real medieval technology levels. Evil nobles may restrict commoners' use of high technology; medical technology is particularly common, but commoners often live lives of drudgery and toil. The extent of which any of it can be considered "feudal" is up for grabs.

Often an excuse to use medieval european fantasy tropes in SF. On the other hand, most historical (sedentary) societies have had legal enforceable hierarchies, and many do to this day; democracy has frequently been very ill-thought of, and has, from time to time, deserved it.

Frequently rather benevolent, but may range all the way to aristocrats are evil and deadly decadent court. However, it is seldom explicitly dystopia; Dystopian authorities tend to be more blatantly kept in place by naked force. This trope covers only societies where social status is legally inherited; 1984, where the children of Party members are theoretically admitted because of an exam, and the children of proles who might qualify tend to vanish before it, does not qualify. Also, under this trope, the royals and nobles draw their authority from the law, where the ruling party of a Dystopia does not acknowledge anything as giving them their power.

Often leaning towards the Romantic end of romanticism versus enlightenment.

In some works, heroes have great ease in converting them to democracies. Partly because writers seem to be unaware of any arguments against democracy, and of the complexity of developing a stable democracy.

Note that every large enough nation is divided into territories for ease of administration, and if a given territory is large enough that elections would take years hereditary governors would be practical, which is the definition of feudalism. So this trope may be justified in settings without ftl communications or casual interstellar travel.

Likewise it should be noted that democratic republics predate the middle ages in Europe, which to a large extent occurred specifically because the last of them at the time (Rome) imploded so totally and left behind such a vacuum. So it's probably not so far fetched when you really think about it. Feudalism is at it's core a system driven by whatever handful of intense individual personalities are active at any given moment, and therefore it's likely to spring up in some form wherever ideologically or culturally driven institutions have failed nearly totally leaving behind a distressed populace that's just desperate for organization/direction. It is not at all implausible to think it could happen again, in fact one could even argue that the world might be heading in that general direction even now.

