A house says a lot about the people living in it: their social and economic status, their religion and culture, their cleanliness. The same can be said about a king and his kingdom. You're unlikely to find moloch the despoiler ruling hippity hoppity happy hare hill, and a place like the firepits of wrath is most certainly not going to be ruled by the iron-fisted Tooth Fairy (unless, of course, he's that Tooth Fairy)... though the Orcs would have had much better dental hygiene.

The land of the Fisher King not only reflects the kind of rule they impose, but their moral alignment, state of health, and in some cases even their mood. ("The Land and the King are One.") In this kingdom the "divine right of kings" extends to a righteous link with the land. This is either a blessing or a curse, because though their joy brings eternal spring and bounty, their sadness and anger heralds rain and thunderstorms respectively. If the king is dying or goes mad, expect the kingdom to become sickly and its inhabitants unhinged. If he's replaced by a villain, they either "inherit" the link or the kingdom itself resents this affront to the natural order and becomes a truly depressing mordor-like place to live (or even wintry).

The replacement of the big bad on the throne can produce remarkably quick changes. Either cue the sun or happy rain is possible, depending on what effect the big bad had. A full blown world-healing wave isn't out of the question if they were really bad.May require a king of the right family. Of course, in those works, the rightful king tends to be the good king.

trope namer is the guardian of the Holy Grail in some versions of the arthurian legends. He is wounded in the leg or the genitals and unable to rule; so he takes up fishing, while his lands rot. To cure the king and his realm and win the Grail, the chosen one (usually Perceval or Galahad) must ask him a specific question, which varies between accounts: usually something about the Grail, asking the king what ails him, or the average airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow.

Compare medical monarch. Contrast friend to all living things and enemy to all living things, where their mere existence causes the changes (on a small scale).

Subtrope of royalty super power. See also no ontological inertia, terminally dependent society and genius loci. If the place has this effect on its inhabitants, it's a fisher kingdom. If you are looking for the film of the same name, hop on over to The Fisher King.

Oh, and this has nothing to do with that fisher, or the princess played by carrie fisher.

