Often paired with adventure towns, this area consists of the entire relatively pristine wilderness outside of the city. Urban sprawl is not much of an issue, especially if you just start building your cities up (or underground). An hour's drive from your house can take you to a place that's virtually a national park. Often overlaps with green hill zone as the first step on a hero's prolonged journey, and as such is bound to contrast with its various final destinations. Cue the stirring overworld music!

It's a hiker's dream. This might be a result of historically good city planning, although a story taking place after the end might imply a disaster hit the place and it's just regrowing after the humans vacated. If humans do live there, but it is still idyllic, it is arcadia — which, indeed, often lies by the Ghibli Hills.

Of course, despite its soothing grass, great blue skies and small animals, Ghibli Hills is still a lawless wilderness, crawling with wandering monsters, highwaymen and wild magic. Hence, it is subject to what is known as ayn rand's revenge. See also the lost woods, although those are visibly more dangerous and thus usually traversed later on. Then, it is the home of outlaws because it is beyond the reach of unjust royal officials, bought judges, and corrupt law. In older works, written in times when most people lived in the countryside and so were less moved by the greenery, this freedom from injustice was its main allure, where it may chiefly contrast with the deadly decadent court.

In most anime, especially with ones trying to deliver a message, this speaks to the nostalgia of many older directors for the traditional Japanese countryside that largely no longer exists because of urbanization. One historical western equivalent is Merry England for historical settings. Other times the pristineness is explained by alternate history, particularly the avoidance of major conflict or wars which lets people concentrate on improving themselves.

Named for the lush, friendly settings of studio ghibli films. Which largely stems from the fact that Mitaka and Musashino, Tokyo's affluent residential suburbs where the studio itself is headquartered , generally have exactly that kind of scenery.Sometimes overlaps with scenery porn but contrasted with scenery gorn. Compare to wild wilderness if its a modern setting set in large wilderness areas like the North Western United States or Black Forest area of Germany.

The polar opposite would be mordor or polluted wasteland... or perhaps city planet.

