A standard setting. The Greasy Spoon is a small, local or roadside eatery (frequently a "truck stop"), with black-and-white checkered tile floors, red leather covering all its booths, and coffee-stained menus galore. Your archetypal American Greasy Spoon features:

 A nondescript name, such as "Joe's" or "Franky's Diner." May occasionally be called "The Greasy Spoon" for self-aware comedic effect.

  A constantly bickering kitchen/waitstaff. The chef will always be wearing a tank top, have a pot belly, and sport a decidedly working class one-syllable name like Jim, Frank, or Earl.

 A nigh-endless stream of indecipherable " Food served will either be horrible or improbably delicious (just as long as you don't have too many questions about what goes on in the kitchen).

 The menu tends towards unpretentious Americana: pancakes, burgers, fries, hot dogs, milkshakes, fried chicken, chicken-fried steak, biscuits and sausage gravy, etc., all washed down with bottomless, vile, and well-boiled coffee.

 Probably owned and operated by some sort of " The "Best Darn X Pie in the Nation." Frequently pumpkin, apple, or cherry; occasionally blueberry. Or pecan if you're in the South, pronounced "p'CAHN."

 Working class and blue-collar patrons, often burly truck drivers, bikers, rednecks and cops. If the diner is in a large city, the patrons will be a mix of various sorts.

 Drunk patrons at night (coming back from the bar) and hung-over ones in the morning/early afternoon on weekends. Both are attracted by the greasy food (the drunk ones to satisfy the drunk munchies, the hung-over ones because fatty food is good for a liquor-damaged stomach); the morning folk also seek the painkilling power of caffeine. Going to a diner while drunk or hung-over is practically a trope in itself.

 Stemming from this, a  If the Greasy Spoon is meant to evoke a "50's diner" feel, it may have jukeboxes at the tables.

Oh, and by the way: the American diner is very important to the culture of the Northeast, and is practically a religion in new jersey. Argue with a Northeasterner—and especially a New Jerseyan, and really especially a North Jerseyan—about what a diner is at your own peril.

There exists a British version of the greasy spoon, catering to roughly the same demographic and serving a broadly similar role, though with different typical cuisine and decor. They are typically called a "cafe," without the accent and pronounced "caff." As far as the place goes, replace the vile, well-boiled coffee with the proverbial khaki builder's tea strong and sweet enough to stand a spoon in, the "unpretentious Americana" with similarly unpretentious British fare (which may be local and period-appropriate; e.g., if you're in the east end any time before 1970, expect eel pies), and the "ethnic" owner with an at least moderately xenophobic british one, and you have a fair picture of the institution.

It is also common to have a ordinary greasy spoon in a quite fantastic setting, in a case of recycled . Occasionally, it features as the inn between the worlds.

Similar to the malt shop, but lacks any kind of nostalgia filter.

 Edward Hopper's "Nighthawks" features an outside view of a corner diner in a big city and several late-night patrons. It is quite often referenced in other media.

 In  In   Since       One of these appeared in  Jenny Hayden and  Used in a genuinely creepy way in  The movie  Pumpkin & Honey Bunny rob one in  The real   In  The lab that turned Steve Rogers into  The Portokalos' restaurant in  In  The Bulldog Cafe in  In  In the Canadian  The Don't Drop Inn from     The sleazy galley in  "The Crows Nest" in the   The Pico Mundo Grille in the  In  In  In   Mama Joy's in  The  Mel's Diner in the  In   On  In   There's one in  The reaper meetings on  Dean in  The cast of  Tyler takes Dub-Dub to the  Barth's from   Kelly gets a job at one on  The main characters in  The cast of      Parodied in a sketch on    A stock setting within many  Irma's Diner in  Roz's Roost in    Stinky's Diner in the  The  The diner in whose   In  In the animated short   There was one of these of the "Truck Stop" variety in an episode of    One episode of  Refers to the Krusty Krab in an early  In  One of these was a central location in  The  A funny example occurs in  Similar establishments figure in several episodes of    One such eatery exists in  Mickey's Dining Car in downtown St. Paul, breakfast served 24 hours a day since before  Go to roadfood.com and look up all the restaurants under the "Diner" category. You'll find quite a few that fit the bill (and quite a few others that used to fit before getting listed on Roadfood made them popular and they became more upscale).

 A few national chains—notably Waffle House, IHOP, and Denny's—are styled after diners. However, many diner aficionados, particularly from the Northeast,  Johnie's Coffee Shop in Los Angeles is a famed example of Googie architecture and a recently-designated Los Angeles landmark, famed for hosting scenes in  One appears in   LV's mother in    The street cafe type shows up in   Chapter 8 of  The '70s sitcom  The little cafe to which the losing team is sent by  The Green Midget Cafe, Bromley from  One of Cynthia's patients in Series 2 of  The American version of the  The back cover of Supertramp's  Barry Cryer and Ron Golden's song "Truffles" is about one of these, to a tune that's a mashup of  The  Joe's diner from     "Harga's House of Ribs" in  Steph Turner's restaurant where the Spook Duo set shop in the David Weber and Eric Flint's  The  The Infinity Diner in  In   Dot's Diner in   