A common explanation for supernatural goings-on in America, most commonly seen in movies: A haunted house is built on an ancient Indian burial ground. The disturbed spirits of the ancients of the land then enact their bloody vengeance against those who wake them by turning off the lights, making hooting noises, creating flies and maybe, if they feel up to it despite being dead, killing people.

Sometimes this isn't known or revealed until the end, sometimes it's known only to the greedy land developer who just doesn't care as long as he gets it cheap, or to people who don't believe in such nonsense but will by the end of the movie.

The reasons for the ancient Indian burial ground are plenty. Burial sites are often connected with ancient elder evil, and, in the USA, unless your definition of "ancient" is pretty flexible, that means Native Americans. Some tribes didn't give their burial grounds signs that they were graveyards, such as tombstones, memorials or rolling clouds of ominous fog. Native Americans are stereotypically assumed to be more magical, and hence will have niftier ghosts. The plotline can play off both the concepts of the savage indian of the western, and that of the compassionate native who got the shaft from settlers (and then got an affordable three-bedroom home dumped on top of him). It's a good way to exorcise white guilt because, in some ways, all of America is an Indian Burial Ground.

sub-trope of due to the dead and holy ground. Note that in many cultures, disturbing graves or other places related to the dead is regarded as dangerous.

This is a mostly a discredited trope, mainly due to most viewer's recognition of it. If it gets used, it's often at least slightly tongue-in-cheek, humorous, heavily lampshaded or subverted. Or maybe it's a remake. In any plot with something weird happening, a genre savvy character may theorize that it's due to ancient Indian burial ground, even if they're in Europe or Asia. Note that this trope refers to Native Americans, not people of the country (or subcontinent) of India. The majority of the people of India are Hindu, and hence usually get cremated instead. This wiki does not, however, recommend desecrating burial grounds in India purely on the basis of this loophole.

Compare gypsy curse for a more European type of ethnic curse.

