A slum district taken over or built around a nearby industrial district. The setting is often badly polluted and crippled by poverty, and/or the place is nearly all metallic due to all the leftover scrap metal and the proximity to the industrial machinery.

A protagonist might try to help the locals escape from living terribly here, but more often it simply serves as another backdrop in a crapsack world or a more technologically advanced empire, where there is little the protagonists can do but to move on forwards in their adventure. If the industrial ghetto is a recurring setting in the story, it's likely the protagonist is an anti-hero who will commit wrongdoings to get farther ahead than the rest, even if it's only going to be slightly better for them.

Although this is often a dystopia, it can be truth in television, as industrial districts were often close to where the poor lived (likely so they could get to the factories faster, also most homeowners would rather not have them in their backyard). cyberpunk stories taking place here are going to rain.

A sister trope to wretched hive, city noir.

Compare company town, nightmarish factory, & polluted wasteland.

Not to be confused with sci-fi ghetto.

  Arguably the backdrop mining city in  The city streets in  The setting of  Future Detroit (which is unsettlingly accurate) is like this in  The Valley of Ashes in  The Sprawl of the  Subverted in  The vast majority of Salt Lake City in  The undercity of Midgar and Junon in  The entire city of Vector in  The  Carcer City from  Chemical Plant Zone in   Omega in  This is a very possible outcome of many versions of  In    The Redmond Barrens in  The  Back-to-backs, cheap houses which were boxed in on 3 sides, where often found in Victorian Britain in the inner-city near factories. They also had a reputation for being poorly built, poorly ventilated, and where the poorest people live, often just renting out 1 or 2 rooms. It got so bad laws were actually put in place to stop the building of them.

