Basically, a place of accommodation that kills its customers and robs their corpses. For unknown reasons, this turns up a lot in French literature/works set in France. Sometimes, to "get more bang for the buck," the proprietors will "serve" their guests as well. One wonders how these places advertise and attract guests/victims, other than the possible curiosity if rumors of their crimes are publicized. See also hell hotel and inn security, although in the latter, attacks on guests are generally not by the inn's owners.

If it is just impossible to leave, and you stay forever, see lotus-eater machine.

 Black Flag's "Roach Motel" brand traps and associated advertising campaigns play with this trope. "Roaches check in... but they don't check out!"

 In  A two parter in the  In  The hotel in   The 1992 Hong Kong action film  The bar in   The  Played with in   A variation of this occurs in    There are Chinese tales about bandit-run inns who serve human meat, although this trope is likely to pop up in any culture where people travel.

 Likewise, Japan has myths about a mysterious "Sparrow's Inn," where shapeshifting birds lure humans in and kill them in their sleep, presumably to eat them.

 The original  One of the later miracles attributed to St. Nicholas has him raising to life three boys/young men who were killed and placed in a pickling barrel by an innkeeper during a famine.

 The short story "The Red Inn" by  Used to real   Sbirro's restaurant in mystery writer Stanley Ellin's short story "The Specialty of the House", also adapted as an episode of  In  Happens in "Rattle of Bones", one of the   In a short story by  In the  Kenji Miyazawa's eponymous  In   The hero of  Practically every inn in  The   Venta Quemada in the  The  The eponymous pub in the  In the fifth series of   The  Often operated by shapeshifting demons in  Several examples in  In   The Ultra-Luxe Casino (which includes hotel facilities) is rumored to be this in  One turns up in  There was one in  The Stumbling Sabrecat Tavern in Fort Dunstad,  Parodied in  The  One episode of  The Bates Motel is parodied in  The motel Taz and Bushwacker Bob stay at in the   From  H.H. Holmes and his Murder Castle.

   There was supposedly an inn called The Ostrich in Colnbrook, Berkshire, England where the owner and his wife would put rich guests into a special room with a trapdoor in the floor by the bed. When the guest was sleeping the bed would lift up, sliding them through the trapdoor into boiling ale, and then the owners would steal all their belongings.

  Karl Denke's boarding house.

 There's a Pennsylvania version set on Hawk Mountain about one Matthias Schaumbaucher, who in the post- While not involving murder on the premises, there were a number of old inns around Britain where the innkeeper would inform local highwaymen whenever a rich customer stayed the night, so they could be robbed a few miles on after they left.

  