This is a relatively new branch of science fiction, it deals with the aspects of people being either partially or completely attached to, and part of a computer system. Virtual Reality taken to the next step, or perhaps, Virtual Reality as reality.

Being partially attached means that you "jack in" or otherwise connect, and you then experience whatever the computer system shows you, typically providing audio and visual quality at the maximum of human perception. It might go further and give you taste, touch, smell and more, or as dennis miller once put it, "You know, folks, the day an unemployed ironworker can lie in his  with a Foster's in one hand and a channel flicker in the other and fuck supermodel Claudia Schiffer for $19.95, it's gonna make crack look like Sanka." (More than one sci-fi story has this happen: Humanity dies out because everyone is so busy having hot virtual sex that there's no-one left to make any actual babies.)

If you're completely attached, either your consciousness has been transferred into the system and you no longer have a "real body" outside of the system (or at least, your uploaded consciousness is no longer bound to it), or you are "stuck in a pod" and are connected to it. You may or may not know you're within a computer system.

While there is some overlap between the two concepts, this differs from cyberspace in that when you're inside a computer system, it may be completely self-contained and have no connection to the outside world. You might also be alone in there. cyberspace implies a connection between the computer system to the real world, and has multiple people connected to it. The Matrix fits both definitions.

To make things easier on the audience (not to mention, where relevant, special effects budgets) the computer environment is generally depicted as being very similar to the physical world; i.e. people still look like people, they still have a "body" and a "location" and they obey most of the laws of "physics", etc. These rules are almost always tampered with (e.g. defying gravity in The Matrix), but the fundamentals are mostly the same (e.g. Matrix-people have only 4 limbs).

The real deep-immersion gaming. If the user thinks it's real, it becomes a lotus-eater machine. See also win to exit, when the characters enter a video game, and must compete to get out of it.

