A plot device that depicts the United States as a target of foreign occupation by another (nation-)state or states. The work will usually focus on the heroic efforts of either or both the us armed forces and the la résistance as they try to defend their homeland.

The background of the invasion usually varies on when the work is set. If it is set pre-1990, it is usually a Cold War that got hot or some other form of alternate history, such as Nazi Germany and/or imperial japan carving an isolationist America up once they've finished conquering the rest of the world. twenty minutes into the future will sometimes depict a (dystopian) USA that is no longer a Super-Power but merely a Great (e.g. as it was in 1900) or Second-Rate (e.g. as in 1850) or Third-rate (e.g. 1812) Power that would genuinely be threatened by an invasion from a rival power. next sunday a.d. settings will usually be very similar to the Twenty Minutes setting, usually featuring a russian or chinese invasion. The US's nuclear arsenal almost never gets employed during these stories, despite the fact it'd be a deterrent as per the whole 'mad' thing, though its non-use is often hand-waved away by the proliferation of some new technology and/or magic.

If done right, can make for an interesting plot. However, can also be anvilicious if it is too blatant a rip-off of any real-life war, especially one in which the US was actually involved. One of the problems with this trope is that in order for the US characters to look good and heroic the invaders have to look bad and/or evil, which has some unfortunate implications for the real-life peoples and/or countries so depicted.

See also, mexico called; they want texas back for a more specific example of this trope. divided states of america sometimes goes hand-in-hand, as other nations come into the country to act as peacekeepers, to secure international interests, or to conquer the splintered US. Goes hand-in-hand with occupiers out of our country, fallen states of america and day of the jackboot. May or may not involve a washington d.c. invasion.

 (And not that kind of "alien invasion" either.)

