An island setting where the island in question is crawling with strange and mysterious people, creatures and places, ancient, magical or high-tech. These islands are often very hard to locate (at least more than once). Usually tropical, they can have a variety of terrain, but generally default to jungle. The island can be big, but not too big. Too big and it's really a small country and doesn't have the same sense of isolation.

These islands are often shrouded from regular folk in a number of ways... being uncharted, in the middle of the bermuda triangle, having a permanent fog, a magnetic anomaly, space-time vortex, invisibility cloak, force field, magic cloaking spell, sep field, unpleasant smell. Sometimes they are raised from beneath the ocean. Because of this visitors tend to be accidental by way of shipwreck or crashing airplane.

most stories about one of these start with the protagonist(s) arriving on the island, and ends with them leaving.They are hard to get to. They are even harder to leave.

Things to look out for on the Island:

 Caves. Some might lead to   Creatures!  Unusual, giant and        A   The laws of physics may have locally One of these provides some very useful plot elements:

 Their size can be as large as the plot demands (Although never so large as to indicate they can just trek completely away from their troubles).

 Their inaccessibility means the protagonist(s) are on their own, can't call for help and must deal with their situation by themselves.

 They have The concept of one of these is ancient.

Parent trope of turtle island and island base. Examples that function mainly as Island Bases should be put on that trope's page.

Not to be confused with the fan-fic mystery island or jules verne's novel the mysterious island.

 In    The Marvel Universe has

 The DC Universe has

 Largo Winch has Sarjevan(e), a  The island Applejack finds herself stranded on in  Invoked in universe in the first  The island at the end of  Skull Island in  The  The Isle of Bronze in the 1963 movie  The island(s) full of dinosaurs of  The   The Isle of Naboombu from the movie    Isla del Muerta from the movie version of     R'lyeh, the island of   The island of Leshp from the  In    The uncharted island of Caprona, from the 1924 novel  The islands encountered by the eponymous ship in   The island of   Danger Island from the  Living Island, home to  The CW's live-action adaptation of DC comics' Green Arrow,   The legend of   The Isle of Demons. It was believed that the island was populated by demons and wild beasts. The demons and wild beasts would torment and attack any ships that passed or anyone that was foolish enough to wander onto the island.

  In   The island where the magician Prospero lives in  "  The videogame of  The island of    The archipelago of  The Donkey Kong Island of  The islands of   In  Versteckte Insel in   The island of Sindbad in      