So you have a powerful piece of applied phlebotinum, but it is too heavy to carry around and you don't want the big bad to lay hands on it? Well, if you are a time traveler, you are in luck: just put it in a little place beyond time, one second out of sync with the rest of the universe! That was easy, wasn't it? It will be permanently ahead or behind you in time, and is absolutely unreachable until you use your fancy gadgets to summon it back. Extra points are awarded for style if the object slowly fades away.

This is a bit difficult to figure out with most models of how time works. Let's say time is a horizontal line. In this case moving it to the left or to the right should result in the same line. As a consequence, the object you are trying to hide won't disappear at all, only get a second older or younger. In universes with branching timelines, your precious item may be placed on a different branch, but then again, people in that parallel universe can still interact with it. Possibly, it's analogous to putting it in a different "boat" in the same "river"; you're both traveling through the timestream at the same speed, but it's "ahead" of you, so you can never catch up with it. How that works in the physical world is anyone's guess.

If the geometry of time in your universe resembles a ball rather than a line, a tree, or a river, forget we said anything.

Possible uses include:

 Hiding something as mentioned above

 Having a little private time (literally)

 Invisibility / Cloaking device

 Playing hide-and-seek with other time travelers

 Planting booby traps

 The amount doesn't have to be exactly one second, but as a general rule of thumb, it should fall within the lifetime of the characters involved, so hiding at the beginning/end of the universe doesn't count. (Unless it happened just a second ago.)

Since relativity made the distinction between space and time a rather vague one, "out of phase with space" examples are also acceptable, although they quite possibly involve more than three spatial dimensions. (Extra temporal dimensions may also be used.)

Another theory could be that the phrase refers to time locking, in which such an item is locked into a single second of time. It only exists at that point in time and no other so long as it is out of sync.

Contrast the slow path, portal to the past. Compare bag of holding, pocket dimension, phantom zone, and invisible main character, especially if invisibility occurs because the character is "out of phase."

