Considering the large number of male-dominated societies in existence, it is understandable that fiction is open to the idea of the women occasionally wielding the power. Lady Land extends the idea to an extreme level.

In a Lady Land, the most common feature is that the population is predominately female. Males in this country may be considered inferior, or in extreme cases be immediately forced to death, expulsion or usage as a sex slave. This may create problems in that most of the time, this leaves said society with no obvious method of reproducing (barring the aforementioned sex-slave example). There's a very good chance that this issue will be brought up in-story.

On the other hand, absence of male figures may lead to the opposite effect—any men the denizens of Lady Land find will be promptly worshiped as Gods because men are kind of useful when you don't have any around. In this case, the setting can often come off as a thinly veiled fantasy piece, especially when the women in question universally conform to the standards of beauty prevalent in the time and place of the writing even if there is no in-canon explanation for their being aware of them.This is a common portrayal of Amazon societies, dating back to the original Amazons of Greek mythology. The Greeks used these stories to "demonstrate" why women should stay in the kitchen and not be allowed any power at all. This is oddly an easy construction regardless of whether the women in question are murderous or desperate, as in either case, the women are still centering their lives around men instead of trying to think of something else to do with their time. Some stories take a third option and explore how a culture is affected without the influence of men by giving the characters living therein other motivations.

If there are no men at all, then this becomes a one-gender race. This is almost always also an example of a matriarchy of some sort. For when the cast is improbably female with or without an explanation in the setting, see improbably female cast. Contrast no woman's land. See also persecution flip.

If done by a female writer, has a chance of being an author tract of how women are better off without men. This genre is known as "lesbian utopia", as it appeals to a group of people without any significant attraction or attachment to men.

Not to be confused with the electric variety.

