When there's a dystopia of some kind, especially if it involves machinery, there will usually be one spot in the world that still retains nature and beauty. One area where plants flourish, the water is fine, and in general things are very nice.

The good guys usually want to get there to find a better life or protect it from becoming barren like the rest of the world, though the two reasons can overlap. The bad guys usually want to get rid of it, either for resource gathering or for the sole purpose of being a douche. Like with the protagonists, both reasons can overlap.

Places like these are often used in a green aesop and gaia's lament.

Related to hope sprouts eternal. Can go hand in hand with the promised land when the characters are trying to reach it, and/or converse about it and all its wonders. Alternatively, the characters may already live there because it's the only habitable place left (in particularly dark versions, it may be on its last legs, with humanity doomed to extinction unless the blight can be undone).

 Played with in  In    Cephiro in   The war between Rome and Helvetia in  Averted in the French comic  Avalon in the     The planet of Pandora in    At the  The remake of   In  Children's literature example: Bill Peet's  Some  In the Second and Last  Yevgeny Zamyatin's  In  Subverted in Mark Geston's science fiction novel  In  The city where Gun God lives in  The land of Shinovar in    In  In the fourth  There's a more 'limited' example in  In   Played with brutally in  The  The Great Forest in  The Great Valley in  The nesting grounds in Disney's  The creation of Demilitarized Zones between countries on the brink of conflict can make for some surprisingly lush nature preserves, set apart from human influence. Particularly, the one between the borders of North and South Korea is one of the most well-preserved temperate habitats in the world, with a number of endangered species within it. Pretty good for a place surrounded by fortified fences, land-mines and sniper towers owned by two countries with quite poor environmental track records.

 Ironically the same thing has happened to  The Bialowieza Forest in the Poland-Belarus border is considered the best preserved temperate forest in Europe. Save the bear, the European mink and the extinct aurochs, the forest's current fauna is the same it was in Roman times. Alan Wiseman, author of  Several Islands that were mined during the 