

A magical library is a mystical library that is explicitly magical or is infused with magic. These libraries tend to be small and hidden in a remote area. They usually contain dangerous and forbidden spells, arcane spell books and priceless ancient artifacts and macguffins. They also may have supernatural books such as tomes of prophecy and fate and tome of eldritch lore. The libraries also might be home to monsters, creatures and magic librarians that are there to protect the library. The library might be quite old, and may even be as old as the universe itself.

Because these things are valuable - and it would be disastrous if these items were to fall into the wrong hands - these libraries are usually almost impossible to find without a special map, not to mention being well-guarded. The objects that allow the library's location to be found are sometimes scattered across the world. The heroes and villains alike might have to engage in a gotta catch them all plot in order to have access to the library's valuable information.

If the magical library is easily accessible for most people, it's usually part of a school. The protagonists may regularly visit the school library to find out how to solve a problem or gain information about the current plot. Characters that are a bit more rebellious might simply steal from the library instead, setting up the main conflict.

These type of libraries tend to appear mostly in fantasy, urban fantasy and works that have a fantasy kitchen sink.

See also great big library of everything. May be a spooky silent library or a the little shop that wasn't there yesterday. (Or both.)

 The Great Library in  The appropriately-named Mysterious Library from  The Library of Spirits ("Fantasy Library") in the  Lucien's library in  In   In the movie   Occurs regularly as a location throughout   In  The Library of the Clayr from the     The title story in Kelly Link's  In  The Sunnydale High Library from   The website  The  The Library of Candlekeep in the    In the    The Grand Spellbook Tower in the  In  According to   The library in  In the third  Candlekeep in   