Obligatory bit of 1950s popular history. All the kids hang out here, play pinball, and listen to the jukebox play nothing but hits. Carhops are optional. The Malt Shop may also be referred to as a diner, a soda fountain, a drug store or a café but the general look is always basically the same. In a time travel story ending up in the fifties, often the first place gone into after the "mister sandman" sequence (as in Back to the Future, for example).

There is some historical basis to these places; during most of the early-post-war era, from the mid-1940s to the 1950s, very few modern "chain" fast-food places were in business yet and the infrastructure to support them was still being built. As a result, there were a lot of privately-owned, short-order diner-style restaurants that served things like burgers and non-alcoholic malted beverages. Not all of them were hopping, hip places where the kids hung out, but pick a major suburb and you could probably find at least one. Many of the most successful ones would go on to become the major chains of the seventies and the eighties, driving their smaller competitors out of business.

The greasy spoon is the malt shop's less romanticized (but equally conventionalized) cousin. Watch out for the teenagers who are sweetheart sipping or the possible eruption of a diner brawl.

 Pop Tate's Choclit Shoppe in  The  Kitty Pryde and Storm bond over milkshakes at  Mel's Drive-In from  Lou's Café from  Naturally, one of these shows up in  One is included (free of charge) in the 1957-set  A futuristic version of one of these appears in  Parodied in  The film of   This is where   In  Naturally, a setting for several scenes in  One appears at the beginning of  Arnold's from  The Pie Hole in  The Groovy Smoothie in  Parodied on a  Bizarrely, the first round of time travel on    Bally's  Shows up in the musical  Not shown in the opera  One of the later scenes in  The various pizza joints in   The   An episode of  Seen in the  Prominently featured in the 1946  Although many of them have completely abandoned the "traditional" trappings, honestly, pick a famous fast-food chain today; an overwhelming number of them began life in, essentially, this format with a single location. Prominent examples include  Johnny Rockets, a national chain of sit-down hamburger restaurants with a 1950s motif, including waitpersons with paper hats and checkered aprons, chrome finish on  Sonic Drive-In is a chain of drive-in diners that began in the '50s and has survived and thrived into the present day, complete with carhops who wear roller skates. In Northern cities, they're known primarily for the fact that they advertise even though the nearest Sonic may be tens or even hundreds of miles away (Northern weather isn't that conductive to drive-in diners).

 The Classic 50s is a one-of-a-kind drive-in in Norman, Oklahoma that is more or less identical to Sonic except even  There is one down in Hillsboro, OR. That area is the sort of place where specialty businesses crowd around.

 The A&W chain of fast-food joints have become known for marketing based on nostalgia: They base many of their commercials, and even the interior on the "classic fast food joint" look of  Route 66 lives and breaths 50's nostalgia, so there are plenty of old drive-ins and malt shops along the route to cater to tourists.

 Even the UK gets in on the act with the Ed's Easy Diner chain, which seems to toe the line between being a nostalgia cafe based on a malt shop, and being an affectionate parody of one. It has the jukeboxes, art-deco motif and malt shakes, but they also have a menu of practically nothing but variations on hotdogs, chilli and burgers, signs on the walls such as 'No dancing in the aisles', and the shakes themselves are enormous.

 Ruby's Diner is a chain based on this motif, albeit more from 