In most European cultures death is generally considered to be a bad thing, and therefore most people want to live forever - except when they don't. For some the inevitability of death is just the way things are. For a death seeker, on the other hand, death can't come soon enough. In many modern societies, death seekers are very rare, and in many they are regarded as mentally unstable, but sometimes, the death seeker can become a role model.

For this society, what is best in life is to die knowing that one has done so for the right cause. In extreme cases, to die for one's beliefs is seen as the only truly worthwhile thing one can do with one's life, and living a long, happy, and healthy life to a ripe old age and dying peacefully is seen as undesirable, dishonorable, or a burden. Children are encouraged to grow up to be a doomed moral victor. Soldiers who died in suicidal attacks, victims of cannibalism or human sacrifice practices, women who suffered death by childbirth, and sometimes even executed prisoners, are remembered as heroes.

In some cases, the optimum death is an obi-wan moment on a battlefield, for others it is a long and painful death, so one can not merely die, but suffer for one's beliefs. This can sometimes lead to a culture of nightmare fetishists which may appear to be always chaotic evil to outsiders squicked by their rituals; but who aren't necessarily evil.

In fiction, if member's of this culture are antagonists often expect the leadership of this culture to be revealed as a hypocrite, who refuse to sacrifice himself because he's "too important to the cause". Alternately, the leader may be a woobie, destroyer of worlds or omnicidal maniac. If member's of this culture are protagonists then the leaders are more likely to be generals fighting against an evil empire who encourage their men to give it their all and not fear the possibility of death.

A protagonist example may be a byronic hero or dark messiah who is willing to endure intense suffering and pain for his beliefs and may well be expecting to die by theend of his mission.

Other characters who might find the ideals of such a culture to their liking, are: the atoner, blood knight, death equals redemption, death seeker, glory seeker, honor before reason, martyr without a cause, proud warrior race guy, who wants to live forever?, and doomed moral victor.

For those who might find the idea abhorrent, see living forever is awesome, lovable coward, brilliant, but lazy, and immortality seeker.

According to Science Magazine, being willing to die in battle for ones country, or comrades, is a form of in-group Martyrdom Culture known as Parochial Altruism and is regulated by hormone-inducing stressful situations.

please exercise caution in writing examples, especially in the reallife section, as it has the potential to develop into edit wars.