Also known as a Straw utopia, everything is perfect in this ideologically pure country. Everyone lives a comfortable lifestyle, poverty and crime are not noticeably existent, people are friendly and well-behaved, and the trains run on time. The society works, and any historical or economical references to why it shouldn't are either ignored or waved off as examples of not doing it right.Often, the author will make a society such as this work just too well to be believable and will even gleefully punish anyone who deviates from the society's core ideology to "prove" that ideology's superiority; in fact the only time you'll actually see anyone in any kind of distress in the Mary Suetopia is when they try to break with the society's core ideology. Frequently, the biggest external threat to the Mary Suetopia will be an aggressive neighbor whose social-structure represents a strawman political version of the philosophy most diametrically opposed to that of The Mary Suetopia - a Straw dystopia.

Note that there is no reason to assume that it isn't possible to create a better society. Thus, some of these utopias might actually work. However, the distinctive characteristic of a Mary Suetopia is that it goes beyond just being a perfect society - it's a perfect society filled with perfect people, who show enthusiastic support for the  society's ideology. For example, maybe no one is poor unless they don't adhere to core ideology. Anyone who disagrees with that ideology is misguided at best and evil at worst, and by the end of the story they will either suffer a horrible fate or give up their old ways and embrace the One True Path.

In many cases, the author just uses the "utopia" as an excuse to step up and preach their little heart out. The author may even take the opportunity to explain why their "interests" don't deserve such a bad rap. If this is included in a work in the fantasy genre, the culture will invariably be some breed of elf. Often the Mary Suetopia serves as the setting for an author tract.

Named for the mary sue, the personified equivalent of the Mary Suetopia.

See also crystal spires and togas, perfect pacifist people, utopia justifies the means, and utopia. Contrast with dystopia, and quirky town. The polar opposite of crapsack world. Compare alternate history wank. Mary Sue Dystopias which are unrealistically efficient may shade into being no delays for the wicked.

