No matter where a fantasy story may be written, whatever rich history the author's homeland might have, most fantasy stories take place in medieval europe (or a facsimile thereof, possibly reasonable). People will fight with swords and shields, and the government is usually vaguely feudal: it may not map well to any real-world political system, but it usually has hereditary monarchs and nobles (which many other cultures also have, but if European titles are used, you're in a Medieval European Fantasy). medieval european fantasy settings are sometimes littered with schizo tech, though fantasy gun control is often a limiting factor.

The modern age's ur-source for Medieval fantasy is The Lord of the Rings, which Tolkien based heavily on European folklore. This trope also has its roots in the tendency for pre-Tolkien fantasy works to outright take place in the Medieval era, especially if they were connected to or influenced by the tales of king arthur.

Christianity can occur, but is fairly rare. mythopoeia is possible, as well as crystal dragon jesus. This will partly depend on whether it's a high fantasy or low fantasy setting, as religion and magic are often closely associated.

This is also frequently the setting of Japanese rpgs, wutai aside, as well as mostly Western rpgs in between Sci-Fi games. The first settings of Dungeons & Dragons are perhaps the most well-known example - even though many later D&D settings avert this trope, the sheer popularity of faerûn makes this trope almost synonymous with D&D. Notably averted however in wuxia, which is a sister trope (Chinese fantasy with a long literary tradition, set in a pseudo-historical alternate universe China, featuring magic, wandering errant martial artists, legendary artifacts, dragons and the rest). Played straight in most fantasy anime.

often depicts the setting as more arcadia and the ghibli hills than the actual medieval Europeans viewed it as, though not always.

Prone to people of hair color.

May be imported in a feudal future, with or without advanced technology.

If the setting's history starts with the time of myths, jumps straight to the medieval period and stays there forever, it's trapped in medieval stasis.

See also heroic fantasy, standard fantasy setting, fantasy counterpart culture and hermetic magic, all of which may overlap with this. See urban fantasy and new weird for alternatives fantasy fans, who were getting tired of this setting, came up with.

