The bane of naturalists, just as anachronism stew is the bane of historians. This is a trope that can manifest several different ways.

Generally, filmmakers use whichever animals they can get for a scene involving wild animals, especially in films set in darkest africa or the amazon. Whether the animals are in the right environment, on the right continent or displaying appropriate behaviour is something they just hope we won't ask about.

Notorious in the case of elephants for scenes in darkest africa, since the only trained elephants available tend to be Indian, not African.

Glaringly obvious in the case of monkeys, as the cutest monkeys, the ones with the round faces and prehensile tails, are exclusive to the New World. Old World monkeys have long, wrinkly, often brightly colored faces and bare, often colourful, butts with non-prehensile (most of the macaque family and the colobus family) or vestigial (the drill and mandrill) tails, so any film in Africa, India, Asia, or the Middle East featuring a cute little monkey hanging by its tail will annoy a naturalist like a shakespearean costume at king arthur's court annoys an English historian.

Also, scary things like snakes and spiders will consist of whatever the pet store had in stock. Never mind where these animals live. Never mind if they're even really dangerous either.

Can qualify as a full-fledged biology fail in cases where the animal wouldn't even be able to survive in the environment where it's depicted, never mind being in the wrong place. Fishes are perhaps the most common victims of this, as when freshwater species such as piranha or electric eels are shown living in the ocean, salinity ought to kill them in minutes.

Misidentified wildlife is another feature of this Trope. This tends to happen to birds a lot. Some movies show a bird making generic ambient noise type calls, usually via stock footage. This ruins any sense of immersion for birdwatchers, who will immediately ask, "Hey, what's a White-throated Sparrow doing in feudal Japan?" Indeed one will eventually come away with the impression that there are no birdwatchers in Hollywood.

Occasionally, a movie or TV show will attempt to justify Misplaced Wildlife by identifying an animal onscreen, such as that White-throated Sparrow, as something ''completely'' different - even if it's a species that looks nothing like the creature onscreen.

Also, sometimes background sound effects contain sounds of animals not native to the setting of the film/TV show. Perhaps the most notorious example is the use of the distinctive "laugh" of the australian kookaburra in jungle scenes set in Africa, or anywhere else other than Australia. This began with MGM's early-30s jungle movies like Tarzan, the Ape Man, and ever since, everybody has used this sound as jungle background.

Naturally, this trope occurs much less often when the filming actually takes place within the area where the story is set. Also, this trope generally applies only to normal animals. funny animals can be easily called as immigrants of some sort if found out of their element. A few cases might be explained with creator provincialism, as the creators incorporate the animals they're are most familiar with.

Note that this trope can also occur with plant life. In fact, it occurs often enough that misplaced vegetation is its own sister trope.

See also noisy nature, diurnal nocturnal animal, artistic license - paleontology, somewhere, an ornithologist is crying, somewhere, a herpetologist is crying, and polar bears and penguins.

