

When a rocky topographic feature — a mountain, hill, giant boulder, or even an outcrop at sea — plays an important role in a work of fiction, writers are prone to making its appearance unique and memorable. As few writers or viewers are geologists, saying it's made of such-and-such a type of stone can contribute little to the work, either descriptively or dramatically. Making it look like a creature, however, is sure to strike a chord with the audience.

This trope typically comes in two variants:

 The geological feature  The mountain actually Both variants are often combined with cave mouth. Mountaineers may find themselves engaged in a colossus climb.

Contrast that's no moon, in which a geographic feature may seem nondescript at first, but later reveal itself to be something else as a surprise. May overlap with it kind of looks like a face.

 In  In  In some Marvel stories featuring The Mole and Monster Island, the mountain that leads to his underground lair resembles a monstrous face (complete with  In the later series of  The Cave of Souls from  In  In the Pedro segment of  In the   In  Gargantuan carvings of kings, both human and dwarf, appear in other  In  In   Skull Rock in the various versions of  In the  In   In  When  In the  There's a traditional belief among the people of Timor that their home island is actually a giant stone crocodile, its back protruding from the water.

 The backglass for  The card   In the casual game  In  In the fourth  In  Parodied in  One of the zones in the  Chicken Ridge from   In an episode of  The  Snake Mountain in the   Several actual terrain features, such as Mount Carmel in Connecticut or the mesas at Sibley Peninsula in Ontario, are nicknamed "Sleeping Giant" for their resemblance to a prone human figure.

 The "Old Man of the Mountain" was a granite feature in the White Mountains of New Hampshire which, until the formation collapsed in 2003, resembled a human profile.

 A photo from the Viking probe which went to Mars in the 1970s showed a feature in the Cydonia region which looked eerily like a human face, and was the object of a lot of  Catalina Island, which is off the coast of California, has a mountain called Lion's Head near the harbor to Cherry Valley. Naturally, its face resembles that of a  Malibu, also in California, has a mountain resembling a gorilla's head. Amusingly, it's nearby where  Germany has the 