In any given movie or TV show, anytime there is a scene set in a parking garage, something bad is about to happen or has happened. Indeed, Nothing Good Ever Happens in a Parking Garage.

The reasons for this are many. A parking garage is an inherently boring place. There is nothing to do there but park one's car or drive it out of the garage. Since in a time-sensitive movie or TV show this is padding, no scene taking place in a parking garage will consist of a single character getting into a single car and driving away.

Typical events in the parking garage:

 Gunfight

 Fist fight

 Car chase (bonus points if it involves a gunfight as well; extra bonus points if the car chase requires the cars to drive up the parking garage spiral ramp, culminating in a standoff on the roof or driving  Kidnapping

 Assassination

 Shady business/drug deals/other covert ops (not a good place for this, logically, as most parking garages IRL have security cameras)

 Waiting for elevators up to the building above (especially if a character is getting ready to assault the building)

 Taking long enough to get to the car Related: Any scene set under an elevated section of highway.

While a person should always be alert of their surroundings while on their own alone in a public place, in real life a parking garage is just as safe as any of the other places you have to walk through to get to said parking garage. Walking through one alone at night, however, is scary because nothing is scarier than your imagination cooking up what ''could'' happen. Becomes a plot point in  A crucial battle in  In  Early on in  The basis of the movie  Scarecrow's drug deal at the beginning of  In  In   Christine in    Noah's true intentions are revealed after a suspenseful parking garage moment in  In the 2012 movie  No one dies in  In  The Hummer stolen in  The shootout that prompted the plot of  A parking garage is the primary venue for the (illegal) drift competitions in  In   Inverted in  The Call: The victim is abducted from a mall parking garage.

  In  In  In the comic noir  Parodied in  In the  Much of the season 6 finale of  An episode of  The Grave Digger, one of the scariest antagonists on   In the pilot of   In one episode of  On an episode of    The "Lowlife" chapter of  A Prohibition-era mission in  The showdown with BB in the original  The Chicago mission in  The  During the return to Earth in  There's a parking garage in the second hub level of  The first two games in the  A parking garage is one of several vanilla maps in  In the intro to  In  Parodied in the episode of  Parodied in an episode of 