exactly what it says on the tin, a zoo created by some alien race or just a plain crazy person that puts live specimens of humans or other intelligent life on display. This is one of the more likely places you'll go if the egomaniac hunter doesn't kill you after the most dangerous game.

Only related to petting zoo people, in if it's run by an intergalactic hunter it may be filled with them.

Could be called the slightly more civil version of people farms.

    In  One  In the Disney movie  In the film version of  Another Disney film,  A deleted song from  The book  The main character in  In the  The first Time Machine short story by Donald Keith, "The Day We Explored the Future." A pair of Boy Scouts goes forward in time and is captured by a group of Future Boy Scouts. Their Scoutmaster plans to have them put in a "vivarium".

   Occurred in the episode "A Day at the Zoo" of   One of the last episodes of   First Doctor companion Steven in  The  In  This is why  In  In  In  Occurred in the episode "A Zoo Out There" of  "Operation: Z.O.O." from  "The Main Man" from   One of the couch gags in    This was what  Happens in an episode of  This happened in the backstory to the  In  The Denver Zoo did this once, presumably using volunteers working for charity on pledges. They got complaints from parents and animal rights groups alike.

 Edinburgh Zoo once held a similar exhibition, using performance artists in an enclosure that used to have ducks in it.

 In ancient Rome, this was just a normal day at the Colosseum.

 A pygmy named  Ota Benga's career began at the 1904 St. Louis World's Fair. Most World's Fairs between 1889 and 1939 included human displays of "inferior" (meaning non-white) people in their allegedly natural surroundings, as well as Renaissance-Faire style recreations of old-fashioned European towns. Other human exhibits included celebrities like Helen Keller and occasionally premature babies. Oddly, many of the participants were there willingly; the pay could be surprisingly good.

 Circus "side shows" often have elements of this, with humans (either with unusual physical features or unusual talents, such as sword swallowing) being exhibited alongside animals.

