A Phone Booth (or phone box, at it's more commonly known in the UK) is a tiny closet, often outdoors and usually with one or more glass-paned walls, designed to contain a pay phone. Even before cell phones took over, they were being replaced by the more space-efficient and wheelchair-accessible standalone pay phones, and in the U.S. they've almost completely disappeared, although the booths themselves are seeing a resurgence in upscale theaters and restaurants to reduce public cell phone chatter.

In Britain, there are still a fair few phone boxes around (Maybe a certain show keeps them in style?), although the traditional Red Telephone Box is an increasingly rare sight outside of central London, where many have been preserved - perhaps to enable Tourists to take a photograph proving that they really are in london.

In addition to the tropes associated with the pay phone, there are a number associated with the Phone Booth itself.

 In fiction the Phone Booth has often been used as a changing room, most notably by  In an earlier era, a popular pastime among the young was to see how many folks could be simultaneously fit in a Phone Booth. This would seem to be dangerous due to the glass-paned walls. In modern days, you will still occasionally see people trying this with port-o-johns.

 A secret door or even elevator might be disguised as a phone booth, for example in  A common horror movie trope is for the victim to be trapped by an assailant in a Phone Booth. Did we mention the glass-paned walls?

 And of course,  In  Rosette uses a payphone in  In  In the first part of   In the new   The movie   The  Terri gets trapped in the Phone Booth while using the  In  The Spanish short film  Apparently, the phone booth from   In  Toward the end of   Phone booths were already on the outs in the late '70s as seen in the first    One episode of  The "Police Call Box" disguise of the TARDIS in   A   The  The   The  In  In  In the   The entrance to Section 13 in   An episode of  Shoeshine Boy uses a phone booth to transform into  Well, duh.

 The Safe House, a spy-themed restaurant in Milwaukee, has a themed phone booth where guests can 