In plato's famous allegory, reality is not directly perceived. We are tied down, in a cave, in front of a fire, unable to see ourselves or anyone else, only their shadows; and as we see the shadows dance and interact, we believe the shadows to be ourselves, and the walls of the cave to be the world. (And we would find it difficult to see if brought into greater light.)

A Platonic Cave setting is one in which the cave is shown to be artificial. Stories in this setting frequently have to do with peeling back layers, trying to get closer to reality. not the cave you only like as a friend.

A cuckoo nest plot uses this as part of a single episode's story.

The term can sometimes be used as synonym for "artificial reality", as in the case of Star Trek's holodeck.

Compare cyberspace. May overlap with lotus-eater machine.

Beware of spoilers beyond this point. In    In  Referenced in the      Independent film  The Matrix, of   The ending of the movie  Partial example:         Robert Heinlein's short story "They" has the protagonist catching on to the fact he's in a cave when someone running the world messes up and it's raining outside one window and sunny outside another. They send in a psychologist to try to convince him that he's schizophrenic.

 Used in Shelley's  The protagonist of William Gibson's book  In  In  In the   The  The setting of  The Shibuya in     In the  In   The Plant setting in          In  Several physicists have suggested ontologies that Plato would have been proud of:

 Pythagoras believed that numbers were the true nature of everything. This became an empirical theory by Issac Newton, who would codify how to use mathematics to describe physics.

 In a very real sense, we don't perceive anything but shadows. You think you see other people, but that's just Electromagnetic waves stimulating your retina. What you hear is just molecular vibrations. What you feel is just pressure picked up by your nerves. Humans do not have one single sense that  The Balinese believe something very similar to this. Everything we see and experience is a reflection of the real world. The sacred theater of Bali includes  Some Native American tribe believe this also. To get into the real world, you have to dream. Crazy Horse was one of many holy men known for the ability to be in both worlds at once.

 The  When "Young Earth" creationists have attempted to explain how we can see the stars, when many of them are so far away it would take more than 6,000 years just for their light to reach us, one of the answers given is that God simply created beams of starlight 