Popular History is when a show or movie set in a previous decade focuses on certain elements of the era's pop culture to an implausible degree, often mixing and matching things from different points in the decade and acting as if they existed at the same time (as in The Wedding Singer).

For instance, every gal in 1926 would have cut her hair beneath her tight-fitting hats, wearing knee-length dresses, rayon stockings with painted knees, and donning heavy makeup while driving a cardillac with her gangster boyfriend at her side and crying her heart out for Valentino or buster keaton.

Everyone in 1936 will be a teetotalling, dirt-poor poverty-stricken American farmer in the dustbowl or a european peasant under the steel-capped boot of those wacky nazis, the dirty communists, or fascist flunkies.

Everyone in 1942 would have shoulder pads in their suits, dresses, coats, uniforms, and even underwear, donning updo hairstyles with fancy hats and dancing swing while distributing war bonds.

Every woman in 1955 would either wear sleek tailored suits, long tight skirts and spike heels and be fearing communism, watching b-movies and hanging out at the local malt shop, or wearing fancy dresses with a cute poodle on their skirts while watching elvis presley on television, and men in either tailored lounge suits and trenchcoats, nice guy polo shirts, bowties and khakis running on suspenders, or black leather jackets, tight blue jeans and black boots with matching black pompadours while riding on their custom made bikes.

Everyone in 1968 will be wearing tie-dye shirts, smoking pot and going to see the stones or the doors while protesting the vietnam war.

Everyone in 1977 will either be wearing platform shoes, a polyester leisure suit, an afro, and will be going to the disco, or wearing torn jeans, Doc Martens or converse, ripped shirt, leather Jacket and going to pogo to the clash or the pistols.

Everyone in 1985 will sport Miami Vice-type pastel clothes and mullet hairstyles if they are men, big hair, lots of make-up and power suits if they are women, and early madonna or Debbie Gibson-type outfits if they are teenage girls.

Everyone in 1996 will wear flannel shirts, baggy jeans, moptops, rachels, or angst-ridden hair while listening to CDs on the boombox and inserting floppy disks while listening to the squeals of their 28.8 modems.

Also applies to cars in the street; they will all be models from the year portrayed, as if nobody has kept a car they bought in a previous decade.

This is especially painful when you consider that the writers generally lived through the era being depicted.

Sometimes, a movie about the period that's considered "not enough" will hit a lot closer to home. The early and even mid-1980s had a lot of late '70s styles hanging around. The perm or wavy haircut was very common around the mid-1980s (the Cobra Kai guys all had this cut in The Karate Kid), but you never see it being used when people recreate the '80s — probably because it "doesn't look '80s enough".

None of this is to imply that nobody in a past era was conscious of the time they were living in or historically self-aware; indeed, cultural critics and pundits have often made a living in the field of attempting to be prescient (and sometimes they have succeeded!). This trope is for instances when an "average person" who can't possibly predict future nostalgia is depicted having an outlandish amount of genre savviness.

For a good depiction of a time period, one should look at the TV shows, books, plays and movies that were made during that period. Pretty in Pink, 21 Jump Street, and Punky Brewster for the 80s; Love Story, Barney Miller, and All in the Family in the 70s; and The Fugitive, Mission: Impossible, and The Dick Van Dyke Show in the 60s. However, beware of a show that tried to be totally radical.

nothing but hits is a subset of this trope. See also: politically correct history; nostalgia filter; "mister sandman" sequence. Compare: anachronism stew; frozen in time. For this trope in reverse, see present day past. When a work actually made during the relevant time period appears to fit this trope, it's an unintentional period piece.

