During major wars, armies will often capture numerous enemy soldiers. These enemies must be kept somewhere, preferably some place where they can not return to their fellows. This usually results in a Prisoner of War Camp. As soldiers on the battlefield, these two groups are enemies. For whatever reason, a group of soldiers has been captured by the very guys they were trying to kill just the day before. The camp guards will not like the prisoners because those same prisoners may have been responsible for the death and destruction visited upon their homeland. Typically, the guards will not be nice about the way they treat their prisoners.

Since governments don't like having large numbers of 'potential enemies' running around loose in their back yard, something must be done about them. The answer to this problem is an internment camp. It's basically a POW camp for civilians. Since they are almost always run by the military, we can consider them to be closely related, and therefore included. The concentration camp is the evil twin to the internment camp. Its main objective is to contain political prisoners for either extermination or to keep them handily available for slave labor. While detainees at an internment camp are generally not mistreated, detainees at a concentration camp can expect nothing but constant pain and hunger or instant death at any moment. Any way you look at it, you don't want to be a resident of any of these. Unless you're a guard.

As a sub-trope of prison, most prison tropes will apply. This camp can readily turn into a hell hole prison. If it is sufficiently escape-resistant, it can become the alcatraz. You will always see plenty of heavily armed guards, unfriendly guard dogs, guard towers with machine guns and spotlights. Expect miles of barbed wire, often in tangled loops. Sometimes, the wire can be connected to high voltage for added deterrent to escape attempts. Frequently, you will see someone working on a great escape (indeed, in real life, trying to escape when the opportunity presents itself is often expected or required of military personnel). Many military and warfare tropes will be seen as well.

 Important to remember: the Geneva Conventions are treaties that set standards for how POWs are supposed to be treated. They haven't always been honored — both in fiction and in The POW Camp as a setting is a major fixture of many war films as well as many TV Series. In many fps games, the PC must rescue a fellow soldier from a POW Camp.

No Real Life Examples, Please! There's too many specific ones to count.

 Several issues of  One that the Grey Smurfs set up for the captured Smurfs in           In           The beta plot of     Several characters in Harry Turtledove's various series spend time in one POW camp or another. Often, the viewpoint character from a losing side (Japanese in End of The Beginning, Confederate States Army in Timeline-191, and Gyongosian in the Derlavian War) reflects with dismay on what the luxurious prison camp shows about the relative wealth of the two sides.

 The 1996 TV Movie  British series   The  The season 7  "The Great Potty Escape" was     In  More than one game in the  The final level of  The aptly named cult classic 6th generation game  A level in    The end of     The end of    In      The human ranches in  