Stories are often recycled from other shows, with the setting changed with just enough of a gimmick to make it look different. The characters will have the same character types, sometimes even the same voice actors. Sometimes these will be direct spinoffs, with the same characters with one major time or setting change. Later varieties included "!"

Putting the series into space, though, is the big one. This is because space has captured the public's imagination at least since the start of the space race, and science fiction authors and fans have been fascinated even longer.

Thus it's not unreasonable to think "Wouldn't that show be even better in outer space?".

Note: Please make sure you understand what this trope means before posting examples. It does not refer to a normal sequel, a remake, an adaptation, or to something that is simply like something else in the same genre.

Some common things to avoid. This trope is not literal. Just because you can define something as "in space" doesn't mean it counts. It still needs to be recycled from an older idea. Even if it has "In Space" in the title.  A game or story following (or if you want to  It's not enough that an idea seems to be ripping off another idea. It needs to be blatant in its advertising that it is a copy for it to count. You could argue that " Similarly games stealing mechanics or gameplay styles from other games is  If an idea seems to be crossing two different ideas it's  As a setting trope, this is distinct from  If the story has just been moved into modern time, but is otherwise more or less the same it's  If the "gimmick" is more than 6 words long or includes the word 'and', think hard before adding it. It might still count, but it might be too stretched to fit.

Also remember that tropes are not bad, so when listing something, do not be derogatory towards the newer media (for example if you had something that was Pokemon IN SPACE you do not need to list it as Pokemon IN SPACE AND WITH UGLIER MONSTERS)

A sub-trope of recycled premise.

A sister trope to like that show but with mecha, space is an ocean.

Compare spacex.

            