

A Runaway Hideaway is a place the runaway character can call home (either temporarily or permanently).

The form it takes will vary wildly depending on the story's genre, setting, and plot. It can range from an abandoned city to a campsite in the woods, though it doesn't necessarily need to be a desolate or abandoned landscape. Some runaways go to orphanages or the homes of trusted relatives (if they have any). It may even be the home of a kind stranger. There are several main subtypes of this trope:



In real life this may not be the smartest course of action, as your guardians would presumably look for you here. However, if the relatives are upstanding, they might be able to help if the runaway is escaping abuse.

The runaway runs to a local shelter or orphanage. Abused or not, this is usually a better option than Type 2.

An especially naïve character may run away from home and into the Big Scary World without having a plan. This type is the most likely to end up in a stranger's house, which can lead to a bad end if said stranger turn out to be a crazy pervert or serial killer.

The runaway has heard rumors of a place where runaways of all shapes and sizes can take shelter, and decides this is the place to try their luck. If people are disappearing in the story, they may end up here. Characters may run here just for yuks, to see if the urban legend is true.

One weirdly common place for runaways to end up is the circus, possibly because the circus naturally lends itself to being made up of a ragtag bunch of misfits. If it turns out to be a circus of fear, the runaway may be convinced to return home.

Whether you're seeking religious freedom in a foreign country or you're the last of your kind, this type is the place where you can live without bloodshed, worry or war! Ironically, these types are prone to getting invaded or involved in war no matter how many barriers they put up...

make a run away hide away can help you create your character's new home.

needs wiki magic love.

 Arguably Kaede House in  Yoshitaka's house in  The teenage characters in  In  The apple barrel in the  The Smoke in  The Sanctuary in  The abandoned movie theater in  Greentree in  Interestingly done for purposes of  Angelica running away from home to her cousin Tommy's house in  Ty Lee of  In the 