A Secret Government Warehouse is where a nation keeps various items whose existence should be kept secret from the general populace. Usually run by an artifact collection agency.

In fiction, the Secret Government Warehouse is a plot device used for conveniently disposing of story elements that have fulfilled their purpose in a story, but that would cause consistency or continuity problems for subsequent (or previous) stories in the same fictional setting were they to remain. In many cases, the story items disposed of are of such a nature that they would make it difficult to set up the necessary tensions and conflicts for other stories in the fictional setting, as they would make such tensions and conflicts simple to resolve. A secondary purpose of the Secret Government Warehouse plot device is to satirize the ineptitude of governments, the premise being that if a government found itself in possession of an extraordinary object or person, it would simply catalog it and lose it in a vast filing system.

Occasionally, a Secret Government Warehouse can serve as the main setting for a story. In this case, the warehouse has a rather different purpose in the story (even though its in-universe purpose is the same), that of providing a unique setting with a steady influx of phlebotinum and other weirdness.

Some conspiracy theorists believe that Secret Government Warehouses exist in Real Life, containing suppressed inventions, archaeological and historical evidence that contradicts mainstream theory, and objects that have famously been lost.

Not to be confused with abandoned warehouse, even though the two can overlap.

      The comic book  The Research Technical Institute, the main setting of  Both the Four and members of  In  The conclusion of  In the   In  Scott Westerfield's book  Not run by a government, which doesn't seem to exist in the    In the first episode of  The Sci-Fi Channel series  The town in  Likewise, the  In the second season of   By extension Torchwood One and its hub in the Cardiff Division, as found in  Chillingly used on  In  We see at one at Area51 in  The Vatican Secret Archives and the storage areas of the Smithsonian Institution are claimed to be real Government Warehouses.

 Indeed, almost any fairly large institution (ranging from everything from the above-mentioned Smithsonian all the way down to the Baseball Hall of Fame's Museum and then some) will have far more stuff out-of-sight (either being restored, studied or just plain old stored away) than it has on display. The Smithsonian's Air and Space Museum alone had such a problem that  Shane McMahon once let slip in an interview that the  It's notable that "secret" in real life does not necessarily mean "Earth-shattering revelations here". If you dug into the CIA's secret files and warehouses, most things you would see would only really make sense to other people who work in intelligence and not the common man, who would typically scratch his head at some things. For instance you may find a report on the eating habits of a foreign leader - while it isn't a secret that everyone has different eating habits, the reason it's secret is that someone did work to find that info (probably undercover), and it's handy info to have should they ever want/need to covertly  Applied to data, this would make the USA's Utah Data Center one of the biggest  An honorable mention goes to the US Office of Personnel Management storage facility at Boyers, PA. It is located in an abandoned mine 230 feet below ground, and in there 600 people process and store every federal employee retirement file,  The dangers of having enormous amounts of material no one remembers anymore came to the fore as part of a series of security lapses involving the CDC that occurred or came to light in 2014, including a cleanup job that uncovered numerous unsecured samples of deadly pathogens, just sitting on shelves since as long ago as 1946.

  Also from SJG,    In  Although not strictly a government warehouse, the  In  One of the (best) possible endings in  In  The FEMA facility from  In       Maintaining secret warehouses is pretty much the entire job of the   