Every religion has its own take on what happens when you die, but what if they were all right? An increasingly popular trope in fantasy novels is the idea that whatever you expect to happen when you die is pretty much what you get - effectively, your mind makes it real.

So if you believe that your soul will remain chained to the karmic wheel and you'll be reincarnated as a cow, then that's what will happen. If you believe you'll sit at the right hand of god and sing hosannahs, that's what will happen. If you believe there is nothing after death, then all you'll find is nothing. If you believe that you'll become nothing after death, then that's just what you'll do or not do rather. If you believe in fire and brimstone hell, but don't see yourself as worthy of escaping it, then down you go. Of course, it means generally good but unduly guilt-ridden people will go to hell, while people that spend their lives picketing funerals will go to heaven, but nobody said it was fair.

Modern theologians and Christian apologists reject fire and brimstone hell as the prime reason why atheists denounce god as a corrupt tyrannical dictator. During the Renaissance and the Enlightenment, they proposed a new idea: Eternal Separation. They proposed the the idea that while god (or other supernatural judge) does send souls who have rejected him to a place far away from him, the only "inherent and eternal" punishment in this place is its complete, total and most of all voluntary separation from God. No fire, no brimstone, no demons with pitchforks, no ironic hell hilarity is actually ordained by the powers that be. However, one's own remorse, spite or depression inevitably makes the place into something similar to what we usually think of as Hell. Hell is not a literal place of eternal fire and brimstone, but a metaphor for a psychological state of mind suffering from angst, remorse, pessimism and depression. the mind is its own place, can make a heaven out of hell or a hell out of heaven. If you are a pessimist, then you would expect the worst out of everything, and if you expect the worst out of everything, then you would think that you are in an inescapable hell and therefore succumb to absolute despair. If you made a depressing suicidal tragic life full of regrets and unwanted memories, then the replay of these memories would mind rape you to Absolute despair event horizon, and you would become a Pessimist with low self-esteem.

Your pessimism would then generate an isolated pocket dimension within an impenetrable absolute terror field or witch barrier that isolates yourself from the hope and light of God, other souls, or the virtues they represent, for all of eternity or until you somehow manage to tear away your self-inflicted torment and break free.

This can be done as a way to explain away the logical contradiction between an all forgiving God and Hell existing, as Hell is nothing more than what a person inflicts upon themselves, which God can't stop without taking away their Free Will. God can technically be all forgiving and the Fallen can come back to Heaven if they want to. This is demonstrated by the Parable of the Prodigal Son courtesy of jesus himself. The Fallen left God thinking that it is "better to reign in hell than serve in heaven," but eventually realized the futility of their ways, and God is more than happy to accept them back and forgive them. Adherents of Universal Reconciliation take this further and say that Eternal Separation isn't eternal. If God is all forgiving, and you asked for forgiveness, then God is more than happy to forgive you and the eternal separation won't last. Only the Fallen's own pride and hatred are the very factors that keep them from doing just that, delaying their salvation. For this reason, univeralism is incompatiable with self-inflicted damnation, for if the person believes they will cease to exist, they can never be reconciled, for there is no one there to forgive.

A literal version of this trope can result from reality warping is not a toy, when a reality warper consciously or subconsciously creates their own hell.

