A Severely Specialized Store is a retail outlet that only deals with an incredibly narrow product range, typically one or two items of a very specific type. As this trope is almost always invoked due to rule of funny, the store's products will be exactly what the protagonists need in their moment of crisis (unless it's closed when they get there). How such a business manages to stay in operation, or why the heroes can't just go to a general-purpose merchant, is never raised.

An infrequent variation is the inverse of this trope — a store that sells everything except for one thing, typically what the protagonists need to solve the current crisis.

Also see crippling overspecialization, the magazine rule. Contrast we sell everything.

   The mall features in  This is a recurring joke in some of Robert Munsch's children's books.  Mr. Ollivander of  The   Inverted in  In an episode of  A variation appears in a skit from  On    Parodied on    Among the many strange prizes to be on  A  A common staple of roleplaying games where a store sells magic spells or gear so ridiculously powerful that only a very rich legendary hero could buy or use them.

 In  This is a recurring gag in   Though not given any particular focus,  One of the  In  In the  In  This was a common gag on    Cleopatra of  Along some highways in rural parts of Virgina, you can find stores selling cigarettes, hams, pecans, and fireworks. Almost without fail, the store will advertise that it sells at least three of these four things.

 In New York, there is a store called "Just Bulbs." They sell nothing but lightbulbs.

 As mentioned in the  Batteries Plus, which does have an enormous variety of said item.

 Most malls will have at least one example: one that sells only guitars, or one that only sells candles of all sorts, or one that sells just hats...

 Flower companies, whether big and catering only to large orders, or small operations.

 Many UK airports and larger railway stations have shops like Tie Rack and Sock Shop, presumably selling to people who suddenly remember they haven't packed properly.

 Cinnabon, a chain of stores that sell only cinnamon buns (of a handful of types and sizes), most commonly found in malls and airports. The buns are just that good.

 And of course, before the invention of the shopping mall, there were (and still are!) vendors on the street in heavily populated downtown areas selling various types of fast food, hot dogs being the most immediately familiar. Shopping malls were, after all, modeled after downtown shopping districts.

  It's not uncommon to see someone open one of these in a large town or small city that really can't support it. Does your town have that one storefront that nobody ever seems to stay in for more than three years? This may be at play. Some shops may work fine in one place (like a chocolate shop in a city) but turn out to be far too narrowly focused when transplanted to a more sparsely populated area. If you can draw in customers from other towns, you may be able to stay afloat. And even if the area can support one such shop, if someone else inspired by your success tries to start up one of the same in a nearby town then there will likely be trouble for one or both of you. The same if you expand and find out the market isn't there for a second shop.

 An unintentional example, related in Michael Binyon's book about ordinary people and life in the Soviet Union, 