The setting, costumes, lighting, and sound of a production are critical in setting its tone and mood. One of the most fundamental stylistic choices is where to position these production values on the sliding scale of shiny vs gritty.

Stereotypically "shiny" elements include plastic, chrome, precious metals, gems, glass, light, fine woods, fine fabrics, bright colors, pastels, classical music, and ballads (the non-powered variety). "Gritty" elements include dirt, rust, dust, blood, iron, broken glass, darkness, rough plywood, burlap, deliberate monochrome, sepia, hard rock, punk rock, and heavy metal. But context is everything. Many choices fall somewhere in between the gritty and shiny extremes; hence, the "sliding scale".

This is one of those scales where productions tend to be uniform throughout rather than varying from scene to scene. Furthermore, there is a tendency for a work to head toward one end of the scale or the other to take advantage of the evocative power of shiny or gritty. The occasional contrasting scene is used just to highlight the overall tone. A contrasting tone may be used to emphasize a position on the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism: Braveheart is a gritty but idealistic movie, while some shōjo (demographic) manga have immaculate settings inhabited by the beautiful elite but are very cynical.

Gritty tones are in general easier and cheaper to produce in live action than shiny ones, so low-budget or quickly-made films are more often in a gritty style. Big budget films, especially escapist films, sometimes go for shiny just because they can.

Gritty Animation and video games tend to be high-budget, since that's a lot of detail to draw and render. This is one reason real is brown. Less "realistic" games and ones for less powerful systems tend to be either mid-scale or shiny; people who like shiny often like games that are retro or retraux.

Apocalyptic movies such as Mad Max or Desolation Alley, noir comic movies such as the dark knight franchise, and war movies such as Full Metal Jacket or Saving Private Ryan provide good examples of the grittier end of the scale.

Historical romances such as Dangerous Liaisons and adventure films such as the James Bond franchise (especially the classic Roger Moore films) tend toward the shinier end. The robin williams film What Dreams May Come is an exceptionally shiny film, in spite of its often-sombre tone.

Compare with slobs versus snobs.

Shiny:

             Gritty:

         Note: Try to post the examples in the shininess and grittiness order, not at the bottom of each category.

Shiny EndSomewhere In The MiddleGritty EndContrasting