The character(s) live in a small secluded world. It could be a pocket dimension, middle-of-nowhere street, an island without communication with the outside world, a spaceship lost on the void, a special kind of prison, or something else that has the same effect. If there is any contact at all with an outside world, then this contact is very limited.

When there doesn't seem to be any world outside the small secluded world, then this trope overlaps with world limited to the plot. If there is an outside world, characters who grew up secluded from it are very likely to be naive to it. They might mistakenly believe themselves to understand their world — be ignorant of their own ignorance. Alternatively, the characters are completely unaware that there exists an outside world at all: there's only the city in a bottle.

In any case, living in such narrow boundaries is likely to affect the characters negatively. They might get depressed, desperate to get out, or even fail to comprehend that anything larger then their Small Secluded World exists.

May often have a wall around the world. Any hidden elf village or ominous floating castle is likely to qualify for this trope if the characters are forced to live there for a while. Also, any case of ontological mystery is likely to also be a case of small secluded world or world limited to the plot, or both.

Compare with bottle episode, where the characters are only locked in a secluded world, the bottle, for a single episode. Contrast with the outside world.

   Most all  All of  In  Most of   In  In  The coffin in   The protagonist in    In  In Terry Pratchett's  Most of the places in  For most of   The Greene tribe in  The generation ship in the short story  The exiled brother and sister Ged encounters on a small island in   In  In   The fable about the frog who lives in a well who is one day visited by a frog from the ocean and simply can't understand that the sea is so much bigger than his well.

 In  Hender's Island in the sci-fi novel 'Fragment' by Warren Fahy is the last surviving remnant of the original supercontinent, where evolution has progressed in complete isolation for over 400 million years. Most of the island's life forms, including the single intelligent species, are highly evolved terrestrial stomatopods - i.e mantis shrimp.

 In "The Tunnel Under the World" by Frederick Pohl, a man wakes up from a terrible nightmare and it's always the same day, over and over again. He doesn't realize this until he falls asleep in his basement and then sees what is happening. As it turns out the entire town was destroyed by a chemical plant explosion and the minds of the dead bodies were put in robot bodies to test advertising. They repeat the same day over and over again so the missing people and the lack of contact with the outside world don't have time to alert the people. The man thinks he can escape but  In the  In one episode of  In     Played for laughs and slightly subverted in the   Cocoon from  The  Gensokyo from  Rapture from  Zenozoik from  In  In  Isolated lighthouses, back when they weren't automated and there was no radio communication. If the lighthouse was on an island off the coast, the keepers had to stay on their own for weeks or even much longer.

 Easter Island became this trope for its natives, after all the trees were gone and boats could no longer be constructed to leave.

 Bluewater sailing on a yacht. A transoceanic leg may take weeks, perhaps months. Before the solar panels and wind turbines, electricity (and hence communication) was on very short supply.

 Even the most remote islands in the world aren't as secluded from the rest of the world as they once used to be. Still, many lonely islands and archipelagos in the South Atlantic and the southern Antarctic seas are amongst the most secluded places on the Earth (to the point that you might feel like on a different planet entirely). Case in point : 