Aliceville and Bobtown are right next door to each other, and they're both fairly quaint, rural towns full of nice loving people...unless you happen to mention one while in the other, in which case all hell breaks loose. The residents of the two towns hate each other with a passion, either due to some old score that remains unsettled or just because they don't like the looks of each other. If it's the former, you can bet the hero will delve into it.

Note that this is sometimes truth in television: small towns are more likely to have residents whose families have lived there for generations and often have rocky histories. If something happened a long time ago to spread bad blood between the two, the current population may well continue the fighting, especially if it's over something still relevant such as boundaries or land development. Team sports, particularly football, are a popular focus point for the rivalry now that cattle raids and arson are emphatically discouraged. besides, sometimes there's not a whole lot else to do.These towns may have some feuding families, or if the trope is taken up to eleven one town's name may be the scottish trope in the other. This trope is also commonly used to throw out the conflict ball for a feud episode.

 The two yards of Lawn Gnomes from   In a  In  The two towns on either side of the wall in   In  Lancre Town and Ohulan Cutash (which Lancrastians consider a big city because it contains over a thousand people) in the  Residents of Dog River, the setting of  Pawnee vs. Eagleton on  Spanish TV series  Hooterville and Pixley on  This is the basic premise of  In  In the  Stoolbend and Goochland from  Dimmsdale and Brightburg in  Springfield and Shelbyville from   In the  There are two towns in Montana that were once one combined town called Vida. The split was due to an argument over what to name the place, and so both names are now used for the separate towns on opposite sides of the highway. There's still some contention.

 This is the entire reason   