In the real world, every kid and super bowl mvp wants to go to disneyland. Or universal studios, etc. Going there is a fantastic experience, with a plethora of themed attractions.

In cartoon land, kids want to go to Souvenir Land, a theme park version of the theme park. This experience is... less amazing. While Souvenir Land is almost always treated as if it was the world's equivalent of the Disney parks, it tends to be noticeably less impressive than anything Disney or Universal has built. It is more on the level of Busch Gardens or the smaller regional theme parks that mushroomed in the fifties but started fading out in the eighties.

Other than the almost-mandatory monorail and the occasional train ride, there are usually exactly three types of rides:

   There will generally be no shows or novelty format movies in theaters, though there will occasionally be street entertainment. There will be no restaurants — all food comes from little carts (and characters will sometimes comment that it is expensive, which is truth in television).

To amuse yourself, take out some maps of the Walt Disney World theme parks (there are four on the property, and beyond that two water parks and more besides) and cross out every restaurant, every theater, and every ride that isn't a roller coaster, boat ride, or Dumbo-type ride.

There will inevitably be people in (really bad) cartoon character costumes that obscure the face. They will be free to wander aimlessly around the park without getting mobbed by little kids and disturbingly determined parents.  There will usually be no sign of "face characters", who are actors/actresses portraying characters who look enough like normal humans that they don't need masks or anything along those lines (think of Aladdin, for instance, or the various disney princesses). The park may have a mascot character whose face can be seen absolutely everywhere.

If there are any specific ride parodies, they will almost always be of older rides — you'll rarely see a parody of, for instance, Epcot's Test Track. This has the side effect that, sometimes, the show will parody something that isn't actually there anymore. Again, this is probably because the writers are working not from a recent guidemap but from their childhood memories. Such parodies will typically be fitted into one of the aforementioned three ride types — if there was a parody of Test Track, for instance, it'd probably be a roller coaster.

Frequently, rides will empty into a gift shop. This is truth in television for both Disney and Universal, where any ride of any significance has its own gift shop which is usually conveniently located right where you exit the ride (although some rides built before the concept took hold, such as the haunted mansion, have to make do with keeping a merchandise cart nearby). If there is a parade, it will probably be a) in the daytime and b) clearly based on the Main Street Electrical Parade (which is at night, thus the lights that make it "Electrical"; alternate versions of the parade include Fantillusion at Disneyland Paris, Dreamlights at Tokyo Disneyland, and Spectromagic at Walt Disney World).

Typically avoided in live action, since it's easier to get permission to use an existing theme park than to build your own for the sake of what's usually just one episode. For a time in the mid-1990s, after abc was bought by Disney, virtually every sitcom on the network did at least one episode at one of the disney theme parks in the form of an enforced plug. (Nowadays, ABC uses grand prize episodes of America's Funniest Home Videos as their primary Disney shill.)

Remember where you're parked, and turn down your sun visor or they will paste a bumper sticker on your car.

If it's obviously terrible and not even enjoyable, it's a crappy carnival who's going to rip you off without the merchandise.

Compare and contrast the amusement park of doom.

