Pretty much any training program for spies, assassins and related cloak & dagger types. The primary purpose is to train new spies, but some spy schools might also include further training for experienced agents. Sometimes an experienced agent might retire from the career and become a trainer, or might be invited to be a guest lecturer from time to time.

Most spy schools are for adults, although there is a growing genre of series like CHERUB and Spy High that depict schools with university age, teenage or even preteen students. Such schools may be the origin of the teen super spy.

The exact training program varies greatly, but most include a wide variety of espionage, commando and generally unconventional dirty trick training. Some are mildly military, and many programs emphasis martial arts and weapons training to equip their agents to be an action hero. However, most give foremost importance to the ability to think outside the box, interact with people, and be a well-rounded guile hero. The school might have classes oriented toward being a master of disguise and a cunning linguist.

 In Red Witch's       The 1993 Russian comedy   Gallagher Academy for Exceptional Young Women in   There is a grotesque scene, of the protagonists walking through a Medieval spy training camp, in one of Andrzej Sapkowski's non- Novgorod from the  The temple of the Many-Faced God in George R. R. Martin's  Large part of Viktor Suvorov's novel ' One of the B-plots from  The Alien Investigation and Removal Agency school in Gena Showalter's  A large part of the  Played with in       Marcie Ross from the early  Parodied on      The BBC series   In   The Institute's School in  Sara goes to one of these in   The Farm: An alleged CIA training school at Camp Peary, Virginia, depicted in such works as  SIS (aka  The British   The National Intelligence University in the United States, which is run by the Department of Defense and provides a graduate education in intelligence collection. To be fair, most of their students are already employed as analysts by federal government agencies, but they also offer scholarships for non-government employees looking to work for U.S. intelligence agencies.

 Several schools have begun offering degree programs or concentrations in Intelligence and Security Studies, the goal of which is to familiarize students with the workings of intelligence analysis, typically with the goal of working for their country's diplomatic corps or spy agency.

