

Back in the Golden Age of Science Fiction, a rough outline of the future began to form. It was largely hinted at in various stories that shared many common attributes. Whether or not this was done consciously is unknown, but the fans noticed the trends and pieced it together. Thus formed a common "future history".

The Standard Sci Fi History is a broad template - It allowed writers to suggest at a common reference the audience would understand. The savvy reader would notice these hints, and understand the background to the setting. This avoided bogging the tale down when trying to explain everything.

Although the details greatly vary, the outline was basically the same:



Humanity explores the Moon, Mars, and the Solar System. Earth is always a looming presence. While travel times may be immense, space trips are common and a message can always reach earth in under a day. Apart from the oldest SF, none of the worlds explored are humanly habitable. Typical plots also include the colonies starting wars of independence from earth.

Disaster strikes (often nuclear war), and Earth is devastated. When the Apocalypse occurs can actually vary, sometimes after Interstellar Colonization, sometimes before Spaceflight, sometimes during the Decline of the Empire. But often, a devastating war occurs in the beginning of the timeline. No matter how bad it gets, Earth and humanity eventually recovers.

Whenever it happens, it serves to wipe the political map clean, removing all modern day nations as players. If the timespan till the next phase is long enough, multiple wars may be used to fill the centuries in-between.

Superficially similar to #1, only spreading out to the Stars. Unlike #1, the focus is on inhabitable worlds, and contact with earth is difficult at best. There's no phoning home for advice when the message round trip would take years. lost colonies were typically founded during this phase. This is also the period during which faster than light travel is generally invented.

Humanity makes first contact. This can happen at any point. It's placed for here for convenience, since the best known Alien Contact tales occur before the Empire forms.

The precise sub-genre depends largely on whether the aliens are technologically inferior, comparable, or superior to humanity, and whether or not they are hostile, but it ranges from alien invasion to humans playing star-god.



During the final empire, humanity/interstellar civilization becomes highly civilized, peace reigns, and humanity explores the ultimate questions (God, Life, and the Universe). Note that all empires at their zenith do this kind of thing. It is just at this stage, humanity can confront such questions directly. This period can only be distinguished from previous empires when its future is mapped out.



Humanity ascends to a higher plane of existence or mysteriously vanishes/goes extinct. Sometimes this could lead to the literal End of History.

This was the most commonly used timeline. However, it doesn't mean every writer followed every single Stage. Some Stages got rearranged, others are skipped totally. It should also be noted that this History was often Human-centric, although aliens were sometimes followed this template. See the Examples below.

Often the history was linear, but the steps could repeat themselves. In particular, the cycle of empire might only happen once, or might repeat any number of times; interstellar exploration can continue on the frontiers of the civilization even at the height of empire; and alien contact can occur at any time, quite possibly more than once.

Also called "Consensus Cosmogony" by Donald A. Wollheim, a science fiction fan and scholar who identified the trope.

See also the trope history of the universe.

