Summer camps in fiction are usually run like the company from dilbert. The environment seems to be sentient and out to get you (mosquitoes chase you across camp, perfectly timed inconvenient rain, etc.) The food is as bad as cafeteria food. In sports, there's a handful of super-jocks who treat it as serious business and reduce everyone else to terror. Arts and crafts are so boring you want to be back in school. The bathrooms are outhouses that require a full nature hike to reach. The teenage counselors are awesomely stupid and actually take the "camp spirit" and "camp traditions" seriously, often bordering on pointy-haired boss.

Usually, boredom drives all the campers to insanity (if they weren't that way to begin with, as the hero's bunk-mate always seems to be). The only fun they have is messing with each other, leading to an escalating war in no time (and brutal hazing if some of the kids are new). If the camp is co-ed, the kids will all wind up with crushes on each other that serve as object lesson in how love makes you dumb (and nobody ever manages to hook up).

In older stories, the camp was always some outdoorsy place with a fake-Indian name. Modern stories are more likely to have a specialized camp (like weight-loss camp), which is just as awful as the old camps.

Unlike the boarding school of horrors, these places tend to be played for laughs. Compare horrible camping trip. See fat camp for a more specialized type of summer camp.

 In    The  Parodied in the film  The 1961 film  Pugsley and Wednesday are sent to camp against their will in  The whole movie    The 1985 made-for-TV film     A classic theme in France:

  In  The novel  Jean Shepherd wrote a wonderful short story about two weeks in a summer camp  Too many  In  The whole point of  The book    The entire premise of       The classic novelty/comedy song "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh! (A Letter from Camp)", by  "Les jolies colonies de vacances" is basically the summer camp anthem, in which a child writes home to explain how AWESOME summer camp is (the food sucks, the counselors are drunkards, they all swim in the river where industrial waste is being dumped...)

 The titular boy-scout camp of the Homer and Jethro song "The Battle of Kookamonga" may have been of this type. A boy was mad at being sent to camp, but changes his mind at the events of the song,   Surprisingly averted in   An obscure example: the off-off-Broadway kids musical  Camp Whispering Rock in   Taken   In the  The entire premise of   Camp  "Flappy Bob's Happy Camp Learnatorium" from  In  In  Camp Campingston Falls in  The  The titular 