

Some series are set in the present, or twenty minutes into the future, or they're meant to have a sort of timelessness to them (which make it awkward whenever someone brings out a cassette tape or a payphone), or else they're set in the distant past, so far back that no-one who was alive at that time would be alive to shout "Hey! That's not how it was back in my day!"

Then there are these pieces. Maybe they wanted to avoid certain things from today's society, like modern technology or the Internet, that they didn't have when they were a kid. Maybe the author was looking back to the "good ol' days". For one reason or another, they've chosen to set their show a couple decades back.

Now, just slapping a "June 5th, 1976" on an establishing shot isn't enough. The show's time period has to be readily evident. If it's set in the 1960s, they should listen to The Beatles and protest the Vietnam War. If it's set in the 1970s, some mention of disco and classic rock should come up. If it's set in the 1980s, everyone should be blowing out their hair and wearing neon. If it's set in the 1990s...you get the idea. It doesn't necessarily need to be the theme park version of its decade, but it should be pretty blatant.

Note that this differs from a period piece because of the nostalgia factor; if there's an obvious reason for the series to be set at a certain time, then it becomes a period piece. For example, The Great Gatsby is set in the 1920s because it's based on a novel written at that time (in particular one that delved deeply into the pop culture of the time, making it difficult to set in other time periods). Meanwhile, the film Frost/Nixon is based on events from the 1970s, and so there's less of a nostalgic factor in the decision to set it in that time so much as historical accuracy. On the other hand, Harry Potter, despite being set in the 1990s, wouldn't qualify because there's nothing nostalgic about the books or really any indication of the decade it's in beyond the dates. We can't know for sure that the author is setting a work at some point in time because they're feeling nostalgic, but unless the work is based on something else (historical events or a work from that time period), then nostalgia is a logical assumption. In general, if you can picture the author of a work writing the script, and then deciding last minute to set it in such-and-such time period, then it counts as this trope.

Furthermore, as a rule of thumb, the series' main creators should have been alive when the series is being set (More or less; it's possible to be nostalgic for your parents' era as well). It can't be too recent; generally, anything set in the 21st century is a no-go. On the other hand, if it's too old, it becomes less nostalgic and more of a period piece; for example, something set in the 1920s today is now considered a period piece. A good rule of thumb is anything set less than 20 or more than 50 years ago does not qualify; as of 2010, the 1960s have slipped into period piece territory, and the 1990s have fallen into this.

Sub-trope of period piece. Compare retraux, which is when the series is meant to look like it's from a time period, which has its own nostalgic value. May relate to romanticism vs. enlightenment as another reason to set a piece in an earlier time period. Has nothing to do with the video game Nostalgia, or The Nostalgia Critic, or any of the many similar critics; the trope for that is caustic critic.

 Appropriately,  The 1980s  1978's   The 1990     The famous 1987 film     Although it doesn't    While it is also a  The 2006 British film,   The 2013 romantic comedy  The    Probably the       The trope gets its name from   2013 series  The   Deee-Lite's   