Basically, city noir + big applesauce = The Big Rotten Apple.

new york city is depicted as a dysfunctional, crime-plagued, vermin-infested, smog-choked, polluted, grimy, sleazy, seedy, corrupt, racially-divided, poverty-ridden, morally-and-financially-bankrupt wretched hive filled with apathetic citizens, hostile jerkasses, violent psychotics, drug addicts, deviants, a crumbling infrastructure, and not enough parking spots.

And the worst thing is, once you've gotten a taste of it, you can't stand to live anywhere else.

The Big Rotten Apple trope can come into play in any story set during the city's existence but you'll most often see it in stories set in New York in the years before the economy began to pick up steam and the nation's cities started to recover (roughly the period lasting from the mid 1960s to the early 1990s). You'll also sometimes see it in stories set in late 19th Century/Gilded Age New York.

It's not uncommon for people these days to feel oddly nostalgic for this time since, as many commentators note, the city had a relatively low cost of living at the time compared to nowadays.

See also brooklyn rage, and the place worse than death section for New York.

  In   Gotham City is an    The fanfic series             This trope is employed in    This trope can also be seen in films that take place during the 19th century that show the gritty side of 'Gilded Age' New York:

 Movies set in a future New York that take the hellishness depicted in this trope and  Grim and gritty slasher films such as      In  Horror Movie a Day's review of  In  Briefly touched upon in  Though maybe downplayed compared to other examples,   Made fun of in the beginning of  In  In  Lyndsey Faye's novel  Hubert Selby Jr.'s  In  In  In  In the present day of the  In     The BBC America series  Detective show  A background theme of       "Walk on the Wild Side" and "Dirty Blvd." by  "New York's Not My Home" and "Box no. 10" by     A video for   Fear's "New York's Alright if You Like Saxophones" is about this. Each line of the song begins with "New York's alright if..." and then mentions various unpleasant things, such as being pushed in front of the subway, being mugged or murdered, having drunks in your doorway... Bob Welch of 1973's  In a column he did in retaliation for a New York Times piece on Miami being a crime-ridden druglord paradise,  The small press RPG  This trope appears in  Both the theatrical and film versions of Jules Feiffer's     Thanks to the worse economy, New York City in   