The long hot Indian summer between the death of queen victoria and the start of world war i. A time of elegant tea parties, absurd women's hats, gentleman snarkers, ridiculous flying machines and (mostly) unsinkable ships.

Strictly the term Edwardian Era only applies to the British Empire during the reign of King Edward VII from 1901 to 1910, but it is usually extended up to the outbreak of war to capture the end of an era. Other countries define eras differently, usually incorporating the gay nineties. In the United States there is The Gilded Age, which covers the entire period from the end of Radical Reconstruction to the U.S. entry in WWI, roughly 1876 to 1917—that is, unless you count the Progressive Era as being separate from the Gilded Age, in which case the Progressive Era, which began with the inauguration of theodore roosevelt in 1901 and ended with US entry into the war, almost perfectly corresponds to the Edwardian. In France there is la Belle Époque, from roughly 1884 (when the third republic stabilised) to the beginning of World War I in 1914; in Germany the "Wilhelmine Era" (Wilhelminische Ära) encompasses the bulk of the peace years of the reign of Wilhelm II, from the dismissal of Bismarck as chancellor to World War I, and the years 1890 and 1914 also mark the beginning and the end of the Fin de siècle, another French term that proved especially popular with reference to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, since that did not survive the war.

The subject of many nostalgic musical films featuring gorgeous period dress from the thirties through the sixties (though the fifties and the sixties have many nostalgic settings featuring the roaring twenties), and the favorite period of the filmmaking team Merchant-Ivory. The page illustration is a good example of what the well-dressed Edwardian lady wore; note the large, elaborately decorated hats, S-curve silhouette (produced by the style of corset popular in that decade) and elbow-length white kid gloves.

(Take note, however, that there was a significant change in women's fashion about 1909 or 1910, dividing the era into two segments fashion-wise. After 1910, women's dresses tended to be simpler and more flowing in design, reminiscent of regency-era dresses, inspired with Oriental flavours, with hints of art nouveau in detail; tailored suits and dresses were very popular at this point, and the "Gibson girl" pompadour hairstyle faded away, to be replaced by simpler hairdos with a lot of curls, and bobbed hair and cloche hats were on their prototype forms. These years were the glory days of the so-called "Merry Widow" hat, the huge, elaborately decorated hats mentioned above. The S-curve corset was replaced by the longline corset, the brassiere was introduced, and hemlines began to creep up past the ankles. The sharp-eyed viewer will be able to get a good idea of when in the period a movie or TV show is set by observing the ladies' couture. You can take it as a given that any production recounting the story of the Titanic where the women are wearing puffy sleeves and S-curve corsets - unless the character in question is designated as being behind the times fashion-wise - is a research flub.)

As for science and technology, the 1900s saw a great age for transformation and numerous discoveries, such as the installment of the Nobel Prize, the imaginary rift between traditional physics (motion, light, sound) and modern physics (nuclear, quantum, time-space continuum) stating of with albert einstein's theory on relativity in 1905; the Wright brothers becoming the first people to fly (albeit for about a minute) in 1903; zeppelins from another world flying around the globe; massive ships like the rms titanic; electricity; inventions like the phonograph, internal combustion engines, the Ford Model T and many more getting more mainstream and more affordable to the public; the opening of the Panama Canal in 1914 giving ships a decent detour; the North and South Pole expeditions; Guglielmo Marconi's transatlantic wireless radio signals; the discovery of radioactivity by Marie Curie; Sigmund Freud's notes on psychoanalysis; and the World's Fairs of 1900 in Paris and 1904 in St. Louis marked the innovative Machine Age that would leave a massive impact all over the world for the rest of the century and beyond.

Partly as a result of the above, the era is also, like the later Victorian years, seen as a golden age for globalization. Trends in trade, mass immigration and communications helped spur an interconnected world that someone from the early 21st Century would find familiar; according to some experts, present day globalization still falls short of the scale of the 1900s in some respects. This even included some public movements in response to the social problems caused by this trend, as when the full horrors of King Leopold of Belgium's ruthless exploitation of his personal property, the Congo Free State, were revealed to the world. Aided by important books like joseph conrad's Heart of Darkness, there was a public crusade against this that eventually prompted the Belgium government to confiscate the region from the King and run it with something suggesting some basic responsibility and humanity. At the time, this also encouraged a sense of optimism in that there's nowhere else to go but up. until one day in 1914.                See  See 