The Maze is that which makes it difficult to get from point A to point B.

Technically, mazes in video games are usually labyrinths. A simple maze consists of nothing more than a series of rooms through which navigation is not straightforward: a simulation of a paper maze or actual labyrinth.

Mazes usually show several of the following traits:    The standard way of solving a maze — a symmetric maze, at least — is to draw a map. But when the rooms are also homogenous, the player will need ways to identify specific rooms; one standard way, at least in text adventures, is to drop a different item in each room (hoping you won't need those items later, of course). A tricky maze usually incorporates some kind of puzzle which either renders the maze deterministic, allowing the player to deduce the path through it (for example, if a wrong path sends you straight back to the entrance, you can quickly chart out the "correct" path to take by trial and error).

If you're lucky enough, however, you weren't ever intended to navigate the maze blindly in the first place; you're supposed to meet up with an NPC guide and/or acquire directions at some plot point before going in.

If the maze is not homogeneous, then it's very likely that the correct path to take is the one that is the hardest/takes the most effort to get to.

Many mazes are livened up with monsters, traps, and/or treasure. Some of the monsters may be mobile, others stay put and wait for you to find them. A Dungeon Crawler is a game that consists of pretty much only mazes filled with monsters (with occasionally a town area at the beginning).

The mobile maze is a subtrope. See also magical mystery doors, the lost woods and the hedge of thorns.

Not to be confused with the former prison in stroke country.

  The early  Anyone who remembers  Many levels in the   Technically, every level in  The villa stage of  Stage 4 of  The Meandering Forest in  Several levels in  In the commentaries for  The garden in  The Woods in   Koei's   The original  The all-alike maze's description was recycled for the maze from  The    The  In   The sewer pipe maze in  The first game in  The maze behind the church in        In  The online text adventure game   A rare driving game example from   The  In the  The randomly-generated Labyrinth in  The ''   The  Satirised, naturally, by   The Labyrinth in  Worlds 4-4, 7-4, and 8-4 of  The     Version 1.7.3 of    The second half of  Area 4, the Airport in     Cliff Johnson's games  Who can forget that  Much of  The mansion basement in    The second half of levels in  The '80s   Six-degrees-of-freedom RPG shooter   The Temple of the Ancients in  The Tomb of the Unknown King in  The third level of Watcher's Keep in  The Rubikon Project in   The Lost Cave in   In  Salerno Academy in   Mobius Desert in    The bonus dungeons in     Many old     The Monster House in       Cubyrinth in  Salazar's courtyard in  The House of Gemini in   One of the Clow Cards  One of the several classification schemes  In order to break a world record, Calvin makes one of these, dubbed the   Though not a video game, the premise of the    The gamebook  In  In Lisa Goldstein's Walking the Labyrinth, the magical secret society The Order of the Labyrinth is based around the idea of a labyrinth. Originally the labyrinth was a metaphor until Lady Westingate built a real one in her basement. The rooms in the labyrinth change and show scenes from the character's memories. Molly and Fentrice must walk the labyrinth in order to understand more about themselves.

 In The Tombs of Atuan in Ursula K. Le Guin's    The theme of  Of course, there are entire games dedicated to solving mazes.  While most people don't see it, the spell Maze in  In     While  Ditto for New York. You  Cities in Israel are like this. Getting around in the country is easy. Getting around in the city is hard. Even if you have a map of the city, street names aren't visible until you're already in the intersection, if they're even there.

 Hospitals can be very easy to get lost in.

 The county of Los Angeles can be like this even for people who live in the area. That's because the county is actually a large collection of smaller cities and towns that have geographically spread out until they're geographically pushed against each other, resulting in a continuous network of roads and train tracks that stretches out for dozens of miles in every direction with no rhyme or reason as each city has its own system. On top of that, the adjacent counties of Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, Ventura, and to a lesser extent Kern have also spread out to connect with Los Angeles (and San Diego with Orange), resulting in the Southern California Megalopolis, continuous urban surroundings taking up literally thousands of square miles. There is a reason why the Thomas Brothers maps for L.A. and its surrounding areas are thick books rather than fold-out maps. The highway system was meant to facilitate traveling but has become a maze of its own, with dozens of highways snaking around the region like spaghetti and ridiculously complex junctions like  Sydney. People from cities with grid layouts such as Melbourne and Adelaide have been known to cry when driving through Sydney's web of one-way streets, nigh-impossible to use curved roads and sudden stops, an artefact from Sydney's founding in 1788. It doesn't help that the city itself is a quarter of the size of the Netherlands, with this layout continuing all throughout.

