The world in which the characters live in is less than pleasant, to say in the least. the sky is choked with pollution, the crops won't grow, and the evil dictator of the land brings nothing but despair and suffering to the people.

Or, on a more positive end, the world the characters live in is fine, but the characters are restless. Perhaps they are bored with their current life and want to find something better, or perhaps they are misfits in an otherwise nice world, and desire a place where they will have no worries.

Regardless of the case, there are stories of some mystical land, of which rumor and legend tell, where all people can be happy. The ground is fertile, the food is good and the best part is: you can get to it  if you know how.

This trope comes in two main flavors, the idealistic portrayal, and the cynical portrayal. The cynical portrayal can be broken down into separate flavors as well.

Idealistic Flavor: The Promised Land is everything that it has been chalked up to be. Rivers flow with clean water and plenty of tasty fish. Fruit just falls right out of the trees, perfect for eating, the land all around you is perfect for farming, the weather is always perfect, and anyone can make it big with just a little hard work. Sadness, despair, and hard times are all but just stories and bad memories in this place. The promise of the Promised Land will be a driving force for the characters of the story, and while they face many hardships while trying to get to this place, arriving there is almost always an immediate happily ever after ending. It is possible that the Promised Land isn't exactly what it was said to be but still good; if the rivers flow with clean water and food is abundant, it's not that important that there are no genuine rivers of milk and honey. The main characters might have to work at it, but at the end of the day they'll still earn their happy ending.

Cynical Flavor: The Promised Land is anything but what it's advertised to be, and the truth about it usually falls into one of three major sub-flavors:

   Can go hand in hand with last fertile region, and gaia's lament, and almost always, crapsack world. Very likely to show up in works set after the end.

