

When the United States had the roaring twenties, and when Europe had the golden twenties, for the young Soviet Union, the 1920s were decidedly not a fun time.

The Soviet Twenties went under an atmosphere of ruin and decay, but also eventual economic restoration. Even though the Whites were defeated and the Reds reunited most of the territory of the former Russian Empire, they were left dealing with the fallout of world war one, the red october, and the Russian Civil War. At the beginning of the decade, public infrastructure barely worked, and the new authorities, consisting mostly of unsophisticated, poorly-educated worker-peasant councils, had no idea how to run a country.

Under these conditions, the Bolsheviks were forced to allow a partial restoration of capitalist ways. The outright robberies of military communism were thus replaced with the NEP (New Economic Policy), where private property and trade were once again allowed to an extent. This was, in effect, the full-circle revolution period of the Russian Revolution, a relatively quiet period between the revolutionary Red Terror and the later purges of Stalinism.

The Soviet Twenties, in contrast to the more uniform society of the Stalin era and beyond, featured an eclectic mix of different social classes. Stock characters of this era include:

 The last remnants of the old regime: former landlords, Orthodox priests, undercover nobles, and people who integrated with the new ruling class but just happened to be of "improper" birth.

 Red Army soldiers and their  The  New Soviet bureaucrats. Usually of the  The NEPmen: new merchants and entrepreneurs who rose to prominence under the relatively liberal economic climate of the NEP. They were often stereotyped as greedy and deceitful.

This era, along with the NEP, came to an end in 1928-1929, when stalin defeated all his political opponents, emerged as the undisputed leader of the Party, and started rapid industrialization and collectivization projects. The interest in satirical literature also waned with the advent of the Stalinist thirties, replaced with the advent of socialist realism, as the new powers were more interested in fiction embellishing their imaginary successes than exposing their real flaws.

This period sometimes shows up in Osterns, serving as the Soviet equivalent of twilight of the old west. In some regions (Turkestan and the Chinese border) the red october status quo was preserved much longer, well into the Stalinist 1930s, by various Basmach gangs and White warlords who fled to China, but on most Soviet territory civilization was finally setting up shop.

 The majority of  On the opposite end of the spectrum, we have the very pro-Communist Vladimir Mayakovsky. His works in approximately the later half of the period shifted from glorifying the Soviet state to satirizing the survivors of the old regime and the new "philistines" born in the NEP, as seen in his plays     Issac Babel's stories tend to be set around this period. The  Marguerite Yourcenar's novel  The third film of  Mikhail Sholokhov's 