In both Ireland (both sides) and England, it is considered extremely offensive, when using this term, to not speak of it with a capital "T". You say "the troubles", they say the Troubles. At its peak, you could get shot at if you walked down the street holding the wrong flag. And there are still many parts of Northern Ireland that blatantly display the Union Jack or the Irish Tricolour, and have its colors on bunting and painted on their kerbs, 24/7/52.

Lasting between 1969 and 1998, the Troubles refers to a period of low-intensity but constant war in Northern Ireland, which sometimes overflowed into Great Britain, the Republic of Ireland, and even occasionally continental Europe. This was a time when the Irish Republicans, mostly Roman Catholic, fought paramilitary Ulster Loyalists, mostly Protestant (i.e., Church of Ireland, Presbyterian and Methodist), and the armed forces of the British government, over which country Northern Ireland should belong to, with the former favoring the Republic of Ireland and the latter the United Kingdom. (The actual citizenry and armed forces of the Republic of Ireland mostly stayed out of it.)

Of course, there are other titles: "Loyalists" are sometimes called "Unionists" or "Royalists", and the Republicans as "Nationalists". The terms are pretty ambiguous, particularly the "Loyalist" title, while "Royalist" implies fealty to the House of Saxe-Coburg Gotha/Windsor (which the Irish Free State did). On the other hand, it's not uncommon for someone to become a "Republican Unionist" (i.e., desirous of democratic rule from a republican Britain), or an Ulster Nationalist (i.e., desirous of an independent Ulster), which does exist. Yes, this really is one of those conflicts, happening right around the corner.

It is a reasonably popular setting for media and a good place to source western terrorists from, even today. That British security services got into some shady dealings, factual or fictional (e.g., collusion with loyalist paramilitaries, internment, murder, bombing, framing of innocent victims, black propaganda, political assassination, a shoot-to-kill policy, raiding of homes, the jury-less Diplock Court system, tear gas, surveillance, torture, forced deportation, and kidnappings) adds to the potential drama. Expect knee-capping and bad Irish accents.

If an organization is listed as simply "the IRA" in anything set after the seventies, then it refers to the Provisional Irish Republican Army, or "Provos", as they are often called (the IRA "proper", though not actually the oldest group with that name). There are several splinter groups and fictional ones are often invented for movies.

While violent, as conflicts go, one might think it was fairly low-key, with an official body count of 3,526... but remember, this happened in a country with a population today of only 1.6 million. The vast majority of the British Army ended up doing tours in Northern Ireland, and this has created its own body of literature (see below).

Not to be confused with the even more violent all-island fighting of 1919-1923, also called the "Troubles", seen in such films as Michael Collins, The Wind That Shakes the Barley and Ryan's Daughter — a fairly popular setting in its own right. It was this conflict that resulted in the creation of the Irish Free State which eventually became the Republic of Ireland. The Irish National Army is from that period too.

Due to large numbers of Irish immigrants and their descendants in the USA (about ten times as much as there are back in the Emerald Isle), the American media often saw the Troubles through a slightly green-tinted lens. As such, while seldom explicit, the image of the noble irish freedom fighter struggling against the stuffy (and occasionally baby-eating) British establishment does pervade some films.

Of course, while London did commit actions it shouldn't be proud of, the conflict was hardly as black-and-white as some would rather have it, and is more or less like a real-life case of grey and gray morality (Britain was only responsible for 10% of the total casualties, compared to the republican and loyalist militias' 60% and 30%, respectively). Even when the media in recent years increasingly cast the IRA in a darker light, being a stock source of western terrorists, it is wise to remember that both sides equally have a fair share of blood on their hands. It should also be noted that only 36% of the IRA's victims were civilians, compared to the British Army's 51% and the UDA's 85%.

Often, a heroic character explicitly belong to one side will decry the excesses of his comrades and/or leave in disgust after they went too far (expect this to involve deaths of children, a tragically all-too-common result of tactics used by both sides). Purely villainous groups of terrorists are often said to belong to some fictional ultra-violent renegade splinter faction, in an attempt to avoid political controversy.

The Troubles are pretty much over now, with the IRA having effectively ceased to function, although there are still occasional flareups, and sectarian violence, largely unrelated to the conflict, still rears its ugly head. The legacy remains, though — a recent proposal by a commission to pay the nearest relatives of all casualties a compensation of £12,000 led to outrage. Also, a lot of former IRA men are now involved in drug rings, partly because smuggling guns during that period turned out to be rather good training for drug running, and the IRA once trafficked drugs as a source of ready income.

You can find a short history of the conflict in this folder:

See also: the irish question for the pre-Partition era.

 In  The 1997  Belfast-born comic writer    In    In   In the 90's version of     Both the movie and comic of    The titular heroes of  The    Forms the subject of a  Jack Higgins (of   Jonathan Coe's    In Anna Korosteleva's   In Andrew M. Greeley's novel   An episode of  An IRA bomber (played by Brit Ricky Gervais while   In the  An episode or two of  As in the  Dr. Cal Lightman from  In the 2001  An early episode of  In  Unsub Ian Doyle from  A critically acclaimed play by BBC Northern Ireland about the troubles was called  The IRA is pitted against the Taliban on the season 1 finale of  In the final episode of the original  The 2013 BBC Northern Ireland series   In   Tommy Sands' famous "There Were Roses," is about a true incident from the Troubles involving two of Sands' friends.

 The  Northern Irish punk band Stiff Little Fingers early songs were frequently about The Troubles, although they supported neither side and decried violence from all terrorist groups, the RUC and the British Army.

 Richard Thompson's song "Guns are the Tongues" seems to be about a female provo cell leader seducing a young man into becoming a terrorist, though he's deliberately avoided confirming the hypothesis in interviews.

  The Roches' song     "Sunrise" by  See the    "Invisible Sun" by   Many Irish traditional songs are thinly-disguised allusions to the fight for independence from the British.    "That's Just The Way It is" by  The infamously badly-researched  The above picture comes from 