The Verse is usually referred to with a show or franchise identifier (such as "buffyverse", "whoniverse", "potter verse", etc.). It is a crafted combination of setting-elements that define the rules for how the world works and sometimes provides for sharing of characters and continuity across more than one series. A shared universe refers to a fictional universe with multiple authors.

In terms of how things work within the universe, the buffyverse for example is set up by mutant enemy in such a way that our vampires are different in a (fairly) uniform fashion, and certain characters can move back and forth between shows and refer to events on the other show as if they are in the same world. Such things are often defined in the universe bible, the one true repository of canon. These bibles may be condensed to a universe compendium, or published as a universe concordance. Some universes, the shared variety especially, have a pretty strict and orderly canon. Others, especially those with many authors, spread across different media and over a long period of time, go all over the place. Most of them reside somewhere in-between.

Many 'verses have a thriving life in expanded universe form and spawn tie in novels, movies, comics and fanfic. However, these spin-offs may or may not count as canon.

It is interesting to note that Brave New Words: The Oxford Dictionary of Science Fiction credits orson scott card as the inventor of this term. He, however, says someone simply put the word Enderverse on a book jacket, and Card was credited for it. "The thing is, I hate that word. I didn't coin that word. And yet because it's on the title of a book of mine, my name is attached as if I made it up." It is more likely then that the Trope Namer is Firefly (See below for details).

One notable thing about the creation of cross over verses is that it is usually easy to link two or more works which contain no speculative fiction elements or major departures from actual history, but doing so with Speculative Fiction works can be difficult because the settings are more likely to contradict each other. For instance, the characters from two dom coms, or two westerns, or even a dom com and an action drama can typically all bump into each other with no logical problem. But to declare that, say, Star Trek and Babylon 5 exist in the same world is very awkward because both have detailed future histories, catalogs of nearby alien races, and rules about physical laws which bear little to no resemblance to each other. This can be a headache for s.f. franchises (Hi, dc!) who try to merge unrelated verses together into a single whole.

Quite often confused with shared universe. A Shared Universe refers to a fictional universe written by more than just one or two real-world creators or authors. Also not to be confused with expanded universe which refers to a kind of secondary canon to the main canon, in other media. See also the closely related term canon. See also canon welding and alternate continuity.

This page concerns the concept behind a single universe, where many franchises (or individual facets of one franchise) exist in the same reality. For a multitude of universes, realities and timelines; see the multiverse.

