cue the sun but not in a good way. You're in the desert, a parched barren wasteland stretching for miles in every direction. If the maddening heat doesn't drive you into a mushroom samba or just kill you, the lack of water or one of the desert's many hostile inhabitants probably will. Expect circling vultures lurking ominously overhead. Although the sky can be as barren as the land, with not a single cloud in sight. The sun appears to fill the sky on its own and the camera will point at it just to make sure you know. A shot of the characters marching (or crawling) forward moaning "Water, water..." is a common element, especially in more humorous takes.

Analogously, this trope is to shifting sand land as hungry jungle is to jungle japes or lovecraft country is to hollywood new england - a nastier, more serious portrayal of the same region.

  The setting of  The former  Played with in  The Arabian and Sinai deserts in  A thirsty Micky Dolenz beats up an empty Coke machine in the middle of the desert during a memorable scene from    In  Death Valley serves as this in the silent classic    In  In the Australian horror film   In  Claims the life of  Arrakis of the  The Aiel Wastes in Robert Jordan's  The heroes visit Tatooine twice in  The protagonists end up stuck in the middle of one in  Crops up from time to time in the works of  The mesas of New Mexico in   Despite having started by marooning an expedition on a desert planet, the    In   Attempts to employ this trope in  The interior of Vrita, the Titan of Drought, is this in  The desert world of Tallarn in  Appears in  Lamakan Desert in  Very much a part of   The Mojave Desert becomes this with the Survival mode active in  The Arid Extra-Dry Desert in  The first  In   In   Generally averted in  Hundreds of bodies of people who died from thirst or "exposure" are found every year in the Sonoran Desert in southern Arizona. Most are from Mexico traveling illegally to the United States. Many are from other parts of South and Central America, notably Guatemala and El Salvador.

 Parts of the Atacama Desert in South America haven't received rainfall in hundreds, possibly thousands, of years. Some areas receive moisture from coastal fog, other areas are as dead and barren as Mars.

 The Rub' Al Khali The Taklamakan Desert in Central Asia is often considered the world's worst desert to attempt to cross. Antarctica is actually far bleaker to cross, but it's not a Thirsty Desert(after all, lack of water is definitely not a problem in Antarctica).

