One good way to establish a character's backstory and personality is to give them a Trophy Room or wall full of trophies and mementos of their accomplishments. It may be revealed with a camera pan in the intro (which can double nicely as exposition thanks to newspaper clippings), as background scenery porn to their home, or worked into the script when another character discovers it and becomes awestruck (or fearstruck, read on). Potential owners include but are not limited to: actors, adventurer archaeologists, football players, hunters, officers (police and military), politicians, and high-ranking members of an artifact collection agency.

If they have had an adventurous and eventful life it may become a full blown museum, taking up not just a wall or room but an entire wing of their mansion as it verges on becoming (or surpassing) a superhero trophy shelf. The nature and content of the Trophy Room says a lot about the owner; it may be a modest acknowledgment of their achievements (which is not indicated anywhere else in the house), a narcissistic shrine to self, a creepy egomaniac hunter's room full of stuffed animals (and not the huggable kind), a creepier stalker shrine full of "trophies" won from preying on others, a selection of battle trophies won in combat, or a small scale bazaar of the bizarre full of archaeological wonders or curious kitsch.

Expect youngsters who think their parents/relatives are boring to radically reassess their assumption once they accidentally stumble upon this room.

 For most superhero examples, see  The Shadow Gallery, V's stronghold from   In  Famously featured in the  In  In the Coen Brothers film  Inverted but serving the same purpose in  Roland Copping's room in  In   In  In    Quint's shack in  The film adaptation of  All the versions of "The Most Dangerous Game" (where a mad hunter hunts humans for sport) feature a variation. In "Surviving the Game" it's the victim's heads in jars. In "Bloodlust" he sets up tableaus of his victims at the moment of the kill.

 Dave of  Gilderoy Lockhart's office in  In the  In the  The  In  A comical version of this would be the TV show  Done on   In  This is what your personal room in any  The Lucky 38 Casino's executive suit, from     The Captain's Cabin of    In   In  In  In  The villa in  The addition of item frames in  After wirtually every plot mission and many side missions in   On  In the "Dial M for Monkey" segment of  In the    The  The  In the military, a wall in your office with your awards, photos of you with famous people and so forth, is called an "I Love Me" wall. See also  It's common for politicians to have such a wall in their office as well.

 Lawyers and doctors do this a lot; partly from pride in their accomplishments, but also partly to impress (and reassure) their clients. Judges and politicians (which are really just lawyer prestige classes), do this to an often absurd extent; a lifetime of accumulated honours takes up a lot of real estate.

 Sports stars will often have a wall or room with their trophies, Hollywood stars, of course, have with their Oscars, etc.

 Enthusiastic hunters are known to have rooms filled with trophy sized animals they have caught. The safari hunter of yore is pretty much where this trope comes from.

 "Deal Toys" are memorabilia of important mergers, acquisitions, and other business deals: Sometimes they're semi-practical, like expensive watches or pens, but more often they're solely intended to be displayed as part of a Trophy Room. A particularly memorable example, from the collapse of Enron, were the mounted life-size busts of Chewbacca awarded to those who participated in the creation of a subsidiary called ChewCo.

