the future, but not so far into it that you'd notice except for the abundance of applied phlebotinum. This is often a linear extrapolation of national malaise or existing crises, so American works of the 1970s have endlessly skyrocketing crime and inner urban decay while the 1980s brought the notion that mega corps and japan would rule the world. When the 1990s came around, the US economy recovered while the Japanese economy tanked; the great politics mess-up and subsequent collapse of many authoritarian communist regimes drastically changed the political picture of both the present and the future. Instead of criminal anarchy or corporate governance, there's a lot more focus on how technology has come to permeate everyday life and challenge long-held conceptions of the individual and society as a whole.

Obviously, the setting of most flash forward stories, though they usually don't make a big deal of it except as a minor joke. Of course, science marches on, so it's fun to watch 10 years later to see how wrong they got it. Television series are especially prone to this, as they tend to make use of various props, costumes, and effects that reflect the sensibilities of their time but become increasingly dated over a long run.

Both Max Headroom, and Brazil, lampshade the zeerust problem by setting themselves explicitly "20 Minutes into the Future" and "Somewhere in the Twentieth Century," respectively (rather than identifying specific dates) and by mixing up production designs and costumes that would have been considered "futuristic" in the '80s with random elements from previous decades.

See also next sunday a.d., which is completely indistinguishable from the present, but claims to be happening in the future anyway. How much applied phlebotinum it takes to flip next sunday a.d. into full-scale Twenty Minutes Into The Future is an interesting question, since many stories employing fictional technology are actually set in the present. Can result in i want my jetpack if the writers set the work not sufficiently far into the future, and the year the work was set in comes in real life without any of the new technology it featured. Compare to urban fantasy as the magical version. Inverted by twenty minutes into the past.

A good way to gauge whether or not a show takes place Twenty Minutes Into The Future: would much of the world's population at the time of filming still be alive by then?

