

This is when all of Europe becomes united under a single powerful government that either supercedes or in extreme cases supplants the traditional national governments of Europe. Usually, the government in question takes the form of an expanded version of the european union, or is a clear expy thereof. This trope is often found in stories that take place twenty minutes into the future.

The dream of a United Europe was very real in the 1950s after world war ii — the idea of the mainland throwing off prejudice and becoming one massive Happyland. There is also presumably a connection being drawn by some people with the rise of the USSR and USA — to them, it 'makes sense' that there should be a United States of Europe to join it. Today, that 1950s dream is more widespread than it has ever been, but, naturally, blocks still remain.

It was also very real before that: See charlemagne, louis xiv, napoleon bonaparte, and adolf hitler as attempts to violently unify Europe. Oh yeah, there's also ancient rome, which actually succeeded in unifying much of what is now southern Europe and was the example many of the aforementioned leaders sought to emulate.

In real life, the european union is a free-trade area that has gradually evolved to include 'common policy' in areas such as agriculture, standards, border controls, etc etc etc, and has many characteristics of a federation, like a common currency throughout most member states, an elected parliament, a motto, an anthem and a court of justice (while technically, it remains at best confederation due to states remaining independent). While some have called it a de facto federation, it is still a long way off being one country, and there is still a great amount of debate about the subject between people who are opposed to expanding the European Union's power and those who are in favour of political unification. Likewise, there is debate on exactly how the EU is supposed to be run, considering how its structure is unlike that of the USA.

A recurring phenomenon in this trope, especially if the creator is British or American, is that britain will somehow not be part of a united europe. oddly enough, the very independent and politically neutral Switzerland, as well as Norway (neither of which are even in the EU) rarely get the same treatment. It should come as no surprise therefore that this trope varies depending on who's making the work in question. Another recurring phenomenon is that the capital of the United Europe rarely stays as Brussels, usually moving to Paris or Berlin, probably because audiences can easily recognize these landmark-heavy locations over the less-visited Brussels.

Whether this is destined to be truth in television or not, as well as whether it ought to be, depends on who you ask. It remains a very contentious issue on both sides. Let's just say that the EU isn't especially popular in the UK or present-day Greece, and everywhere else the mention of it being a good/bad thing can spark a rather fierce argument down at the pub if you aren't careful.

See also space-filling empire. Compare expanded states of america and middle eastern coalition. Contrast balkanize me.

