Living underwater sounds like it would be so cool, doesn't it? Actually, in fiction, it isn't that big a deal because life at the bottom of the ocean is conducted impossibly similarly to life on land. Whether your characters are mermaids, fish people, or talking, sentient fish and other sea creatures, you'll find their underwater lifestyles have a lot in common with humans' above-land lifestyle. most writers are human, and they must want to give the viewers or readers a portrayal they are familiar with.

 Buildings designed by and for mermaids but built with things like stairs (even though they have no legs) and upper story windows (which would function the same as a patio door), and furnished with chairs or beds, even though buoyancy means you would float over them.

 Coral equals plants and grows everywhere.

 Characters  Water is  The effects of water pressure and  Sound being transmitted as clearly (for human ears) as through air. The direction of sounds will be easy to pinpoint.

 If it's daytime, there will be sunlight. This can  Long hair still hangs down instead of getting tangled around your head.

 Characters can pour and drink cups of other liquids. (This is possible if the liquid has a higher density than and immiscible with water, but it never looks like it does in fiction.)

 If you  Or stretching it to extremes, there are rivers and lakes. Underwater. Which hardly-if-at-all resemble  Characters (who can swim) are worried about  Surface dwellers can all  All forms of combat can be executed as if on dry land. Projectiles,  Sinking objects descend at the same speed they would if they were falling through air.

 If there are talking animals, creatures like whales, seals, and crocodiles can still talk underwater despite not being able to breathe it.

 Electronic or paper devices work just as well as on land with no adverse effects.

The problems with viewers being able to understand the characters can sometimes be handwaved with the literary agent hypothesis.

In addition, the setting for underwater fantasy is almost always "under the sea," not "under Lake Michigan" or "under the Amazon River." After all, we know more about the surface of the moon than the bottom of the ocean, which gives writers far more leeway to bend the laws of physics (or so the evidence would indicate) than in a freshwater world. Well, apparently, there is hardly difference between salt water and fresh water anyway. Good thing, too, since that taste constantly in your mouth would probably get annoying faster than permanently wrinkled skin and burning eyes.

In short, replacing air with water requires far more changes to the human anatomy than simply replacing legs with a fishtail and far more research about the laws of physics and biology than most writers bother to do. Fortunately, as mentioned above, the concept is saved by the rule of cool and by acceptable breaks from reality. Nobody is going to watch an ocean movie, only to strain their eyes and ears to see or hear anything taking place.

Compare water is dry, space is an ocean, sand is water, atlantis is boring, and walk, don't swim.

Contrast the sky is an ocean.

Not to be confused with super not-drowning skills, when characters are given an unexplained ability to survive underwater for an infinite time.

