A setting and an era, which has become a genre almost unto itself.

In the age of sail, life on board tall ships was hellish to the extreme, by modern standards. Voyages could last up to several years, sanitation was almost nonexistent, the food consisted of weevil-infested, rock-hard dried bread and salt pork, scurvy and other diseases ran rampant, discipline was harsh (a taste of the lash was a common punishment for even minor infractions), and death almost certain.

The men who survived these times were tough as nails.Expect stories set in this world to be filled with hard, uncompromising men who are covered in grime, with awful teeth, wooden legs, and stringy dirty hair. they will be drunk much of the time, usually off rum or grog (rum cut with water and lime juice). They may talk like a pirate, and are quite likely to actually be pirates or, if not, fight them.

Despite carrying most of their life on the high seas, only a few sailors from this age could swim. Few captains cared to teach swimming to their men, and the vast majority of sailors expected a quick death if falling into the sea - swimming would only serve to draw out their inevitable death if no help was forthcoming, as if often wasn't. The chronicles of 16th century sea-life describe swimming and free-diving as valued skills because they were so rare - something true even in the heyday of this trope in the early nineteenth-century. The state of swimming-skills remained woeful at least partly because it was believed that teaching one's (largely press-ganged or shanghai-ed, and much-brutalised) ratings to swim would only encourage them to literally jump ship and desert when close to shore.

This trope generally involves a used future sort of vision of the age of sail, with dirt, grime, barnacles, scurvy, floggings, and other unpleasant aspects of the real time period not glossed over. If a ship or its crew are suspiciously well-scrubbed and well-fed, it's not this trope. But tales of action and adventure abound, with swashbucklers, pirates, heroes and villains and damsels in distress all around.

Not to be confused with the  board game of the same name, which is is where we got the trope name, or with schizo tech settings where wood ships coexist with powered armor. The phrase shows up at least as far back as the late 19th century, making it older than radio.

