Fiction often works on several levels. On the one hand, you have the story that's actually being told, and the characters the story involves; on the other, you have the meaning behind the story, abstract ideas represented by the characters and symbols reflecting the story's view of the world. Even if the writer didn't intend for the story to have a deeper meaning, applicability may give it a resonance and context that goes beyond the basic plot. Moby-Dick is a story about an obsessed whaler hunting down a monstrous whale, but it's also about humanity railing uselessly against an uncaring universe. Lord of the Rings may have been intended just as a fantasy epic, but it has symbolic applications ranging from World War 2 to the loss of innocence.

But then sometimes you have stories with no literal level. At all.

These are the stories where the only answer to "why did the main character turn into a hawk and fly into a volcano at the end" is "because the hawk represents his desire for freedom and the volcano is the burden of free will". There is no straightforward, realistic storyline masking the symbolism, there's not even a magic a is magic a sense of logic tying it all together. This is subtext without the text; subtext as text. The characters are complex self-representing archetypes and the events that unfold make no physical sense whatsoever unless you take the whole thing as an semiotic play of some kind.

Needless to say, this sort of plot can prove frustrating for literal-minded audiences who expect a more concrete answer to a plot hole than "because the plot hole symbolizes our inability to define existential truth". Such complaints about the story's lack of narrative logic are often dismissed by its fans with viewers are morons, with fans and non-fans talking past each other and on entirely different levels. Literary allegory has been a respected genre since about as long as myths have been written, and it got its start in myths and folklore meant to both explain and symbolize the forces of nature and humanity's place in the world. on the other hand, one can argue that a modern-day author whose story doesn't hold together on every level has only written half a story; Shakespeare's plays may be full of symbolism, but they also work just as well as straightforward comedies and tragedies.

Such stories are often a source of incurable mind screw, since there's really no way to make narrative sense out of them, and an everyone is jesus in purgatory outlook is just about required. When most people think of true art books, movies and so on, this is usually the sort of thing they're thinking of, though it can all fall down if it's mixed up with too much gratuitous faux symbolism. If the fandom insists on coming up with a literal explanation for what's happening, through the eyes of madness or all just a dream are common rationales.

See also rule of symbolism, which is what happens when an otherwise realistic story relies on a momentary suspension of disbelief in the name of symbolism, and rule of cool, which does the same thing for the sake of awesomeness.

This is often an Ending Trope, so beware the spoilers!

