Most economies in the modern world run on some form of capitalism. There exists, in these economies, ways for people to get rich, or at least make a comfortable income. But not everyone.

Welcome to The Wrong Side Of The Tracks. Crippling poverty is a day-to-day fact for people living in this type of neighborhood, often leading to both an increase in crime and the residents requiring aid from the government to meet their financial needs. Many residents are homeless or close to it, and work is difficult to find.

The phrase comes from the first railroads rolling into cities, since land is expensive, the railroad would buy the cheapest land in industrial areas or on the border, since the most money is to be made in shipping goods. But this can cause residential development to occur near the train station as it allowed people to commute by train, but the residential properties are not in the industrial area, but on the other side of the tracks. So the wrong side is the industrial, cheap land area.

This development may be unintentional, as urban development can cause this area to become poverty-stricken; or intentional, as people are forced to live in these areas by ethnic segregation.

Due to difficulty in securing income legally, residents may turn to less-than-legal methods of acquiring money by way of theft or sale of illegal goods and services.

This trope can be seen in three major classes:

Industrial Slum: This area usually springs up around rapid industrialization of an urban area. Those who work in the factories usually live in this area, barely getting by on a meager living. Deaths from disease and poor working conditions are common, leaving many children without parental support forced to live on the streets, or end up in an orphanage of fear with no government regulation. The poor here have the choice of either living on the street or working in workhouses. This variant makes this entire trope older than steam.

Modern Ghetto: This variant has similar origins to the Industrial Slum, but is usually promoted by businesses leaving the area and taking their business with them due to the already-existing conditions. Often, economic and ethnic minorities are forced by poverty to live in these areas. Individuals living here are often more likely to receive government aid. Crime often runs rampant, usually in the form of burglary, drug sale, robbery, prostitution and gang-related violence. Often plays host to broken homes, runaway children, alcoholism and violence. Nearly always has an inner city school.

Enforced Segregation: This variant is enforced by law. Certain individuals, such as those of a certain social group (i.e. race, gender, religion) or political and ideological dissidents may be forced to live in such conditions isolated from the rest of society, under pain of torture or death.

Home of many gang bangers. See also city noir for a citywide mood, the city narrows for a fully criminal subdistrict, and wretched hive for near-total lawlessness. If there's an inspirational underdog story about a rag tag bunch of misfits who want to go to a sports meet, they have to make do with improvised training. If this place is filled with fantastic races, its a fantastic ghetto. It is possible that it is a close-knit community, where the characters support each other against their problems.

Be mindful of any Real Life examples. Just because an area has a large number of minorities, it does not mean it applies to this trope. unfortunate implications, okay? rule of cautious editing judgement  A very literal example in     Taken to extremes in           Tramp from  The French movie  Pick a     Both Peaches and Mickey live in such in  District 12's Seam in   In  The Tenderloin of San Francisco is treated this way in  The Rookeries are the poorest, but also the largest and most important district of the Colony in  The    Santana from  A recurring theme in   Both versions of  Downbelow in  Hip-hop and rap originally got their start in poorer inner city areas. Many artists themselves if we are to believe their music as truth.

 Similarly, punk originated in the poorer areas of  Brazilian Baile Funk is a contemporary music from the ghettos. Many musician perform free gigs in the Barrio, and the next night, at a club on the other side of the tracks, now charging for tickets.

 True to its name, Blues also began as the music of the poor and miserable.

 "Rag Doll" by Frankie Valli and The Four Seasons. The girl is from the wrong side of the tracks. The boy loves her anyway.

 "Dawn" by Frankie Valli and The Four seasons: The boy is from the wrong side of the tracks; he tells the girl to stay with the other boy. Frankly, the song is drowning in  "Tobacco Road" by Tommy Cash

 "Down in the Boondocks" by Billy Joe Royal

 "In The Ghetto" by  "Hallowed Ground" by  "Trenchtown Rock" by  "Poor Side of Town" by Johnny Rivers

 "Leader Of The Pack" by The Shangri-Las ("My parents said he came from the wrong side of town...")

 Deuce and Domino (a tag team with a   In  In  Seymour's neighborhood in    The slums of Midgar in   In  The   In   The city of Rogueport in  Blue Skies Industrial Park in  The lower sections of the Hierarchical Cities in   In  "The Estate" chapter of  In  A number of   Played for laughs in   Hell's Kitchen in New York, where  There is an actual neighborhood literally called "Skid Row", the "Meatpacking District", and/or "Tenderloin" in various cities in the U.S. Such older downtown business areas are prone to general poverty, neglect and homelessness more than out-and-out crime and violence. Ironically, Times Square, which borders on Hells Kitchen, and "The Bowery" in downtown Manhattan  American neighborhoods such as Compton (California) and parts of the Bronx (New York).

 Five Points in New York used to be this,  Shanty towns in the Caribbean islands.

 Barrios and the legendary Favelas of  Caserios in  In the 20th century Russia was hit with an urbanization like with 2x4, jumping from a 90% rural to 80% urban in just a 50 years or so. During the rapid industrialization of  In the early twentieth century, the Canadian city of Winnipeg had a district full of poor immigrants that was actually separated from the rest of the city by the train tracks.

 This is sadly still literally true in many old-fashioned Southern towns, e.g. Memphis, albeit with quaint results (e.g. a fancy golf course guarded by rottweilers directly across the railroad tracks from an Afrocentric bookstore!)

 Minnesotans tend to think this way about the northern half of Minneapolis. Technically, there are no tracks involved - the light rail doesn't go past Target Field for a reason.

 The  East  Baltimore, Maryland has a very distinctive difference between the beautiful Inner Harbor (tourist district) and the areas surrounding it.

 Oakland, California is considered this to   Detroit is what happens when an entire city becomes this.

 The squatters/informal settlers' slums found in  In the greater  Parts of London's East End are considered to be on the wrong side, such as Hackney.

 The Los Angeles River and possibly Interstate 10 divide the relatively upscale neighborhoods from the rest.

 The island of Oahu in Hawaii has Kalihi, Waipahu, and the 