This is when a character just can't seem to bear the thought of being left alone under any circumstances. Whether it be from a friendless background or a belief that loners are freaks, he or she may frequently want to be assured they are not alone by others, such as by seeking out company the moment they realize they're by themselves. Ironically, these characters still tend to lack friends for some reason or feel the effects of solitude despite all their efforts not to. Since they are not usually isolated by choice, they will often hate eating lunch alone, will probably never use the phrase leave me alone (although saying please don't leave me is certainly likely), and may even prefer walking alone in a crowd rather than staying at home and being reminded they have no one to talk to or hang out with. In cases where the character does have either a limited social circle or only one friend, expect them to cling to any of their friends (including pets/plants/inanimate objects) like a lifeline in order to escape their feelings of desolation.

Characters who have experienced severe isolation, parental abandonment, all of the other reindeer, or one of the obvious downsides to immortality can often develop into this. shy characters can fall victim to this as well. May lead to a case of lonely together, if the character finds nobody but other lonely people for company. It also tends to be a common justification for i just want to have friends. Contrast the hermit or any introvert for that matter.

Definitely truth in television since humans are social creatures by nature, although many of us share a similar desire for privacy as well. In fact, go mad from the isolation is a well-documented occurrence for people who have become truly isolated for an extended period. Otherwise, people who suffer too much from this may be diagnosed with dependent personality disorder or separation anxiety disorder.

 Holo from  The  The eponymous character from  In  In    Akito Sohma from  The anime adaptation of  The main character in   In  Haruka from   In one   England in many fanfictions including (but not limited too)  Gentaro in  Tsuruya in    Megan in  In  Christopher Boone from  In  In  Tash Arranda shows signs of this early in  Travis Bickle from  An episode of  Perhaps Dean Winchester from    Strongly implied for Sparadrap in  The  The  D's friend Frannie from  In  Laharl from  Red XIII of  All Yordles from  Masumi from  Fuzzy from     Cosmo on one episode of  T.J. Detweiler from  The season 2  On 