The defining characteristic of the Heroic Neutral is simple. They want to be left alone. This extends to close family and love interest. Occasionally it may even extend to people in their general vicinity, but past that gets into dangerous "meddling." They are determined and skilled to the teeth, but they just want to live out their lives in peace. Out there, the Forces of Good and Evil may be fighting to the death, but they don't care. He'll turn down heroes r us just like he turned down Villains R Us.

It is the job of the plot to make them care. Heroic Neutral tends to be called "Good" mostly because Evil is more likely to mess with them: kidnap their loved ones, threaten their home village, etc. And these types will do whatever it takes to return things to the way they were. Evil starts it, the Heroic Neutral finishes it. And they'll go right back to being left alone until some idiot again tries to mess with them.

Now, the biggest irony is that Evil can't seem to get it into its head that these people don't have to be a threat. Especially if said Neutral has shown more than enough power to kick their asses, this seems to indicate to Evil that they need to recruit or destroy them even more, because surely such power will oppose them eventually. So they preemptively strike, thus causing the very thing they were trying to prevent, because yes, now the Neutral will destroy them.

It can be justified if the Neutral has already spent most of his life fighting the forces of evil, and now feels they've earned a respite. Needless to say, from the Neutral's perspective it can be rather irritating if the much younger heroes come running to you and expect you to solve all their problems for them. In this case, the Neutral's role may be to provide indirect assistance through some sort of plot coupon, a macguffin, serving as mr. exposition, etc. The protagonists still have to do the dirty work to save the day, but the Neutral has given them the things they need to do so.

Frequently a retired badass.

See badass bystander, i just want to be normal, true neutral (something they would be if they'd just be left alone), neutral good (if they decide to plunge further into heroics), awakening the sleeping giant, and villains act, heroes react. Might carry out a passive rescue.

karmic tricksters are often Heroic Neutral. May also be a knight in sour armor. If this happens not just once or twice but continually, chances are they're a weirdness magnet. See neutral no longer for when they finally lose the neutrality.

