No man is an island, but hikikomori are peninsulae. A psychological cultural disease, mainly present in Japanese culture, where a young person snaps under pressure and becomes socially and physically withdrawn into their household, often for years. Because of the social stigma and the assumption that the person's family are the right people to handle the situation, how many cases actually exist is uncertain. Attempts to assess, diagnose, or explain the phenomenon have been met with either much controversy or fierce debate; this is not helped at all by the existing prejudice against avoidant behavior.

Because many hikkis vaguely cope by assuming an obsessive activity, many people assume they make up a sizable amount of the otaku community, which unfortunately is related to the moral panic that otaku are violent psychopaths. This came to a head in the late 1990s via several high-profile bizarre crimes, although some psychologists argued that hikkis are, by definition, not confident enough to actually hurt others, and are rather just pitiable unhealthy folk.

While the hikikomori phenomenon is similar to shut-in behaviour in other countries , the Japanese culture seemingly enables its extremes. In the West, parents are expected to tell their "adult-child" to get a life, or if they have the funds (and believe in the power of medicine) they'd get their offspring a psychiatrist if they're having mental troubles; it's not known if this is the case in Japan. It's a wide generalization that, where a family in another culture (mainly Western culture) would be likely to get a developing shut-in to see a doctor, a Japanese family is unlikely to, because having a family member visit a psychiatrist or have therapy would be shameful. Not only that, but having a hikikomori in the family is shameful, so he's kept a secret. The strong tradition of taking care of family members makes a Japanese parent wash a shut in's clothes or at least bring food at his room door, enabling the most extreme forms of shutting in. Furthermore, in Japan just the action of applying for welfare is inherently shameful. For those that have no family at hand to provide them, every city has little 24/7 shops where they can do their shopping when there are as few people as possible on the streets. Better yet, the abundance of vending machines makes it possible to buy snacks and drinks without ever seeing a human face.

Some anime as a rule seems reluctant to reference it except as an implied trait of otaku lest it offend the audience, and most 'mainstream' non-otaku series have a decidedly negative portrayal. For this condition played for laughs (as it often is in Western media), see basement-dweller. When the hikki in question is a famous poet, writer, painter, or whatever, see reclusive artist. Unless the Hikikomori can find a source of income which doesn't require he leave his fortress of solitude, then he's probably also a neet.

The term hikikomori more properly applies to young people who are otherwise physically able and are expected to have vestiges of a life outside of the home. Elderly people, on the other hand, have already lived their lives, and therefore can be excused for being more homebound and seeing fewer people, especially if due to age related conditions such as declining health.

Compare the hermit. Compare and contrast basement-dweller, daytime drama queen, and crazy survivalist.

