He's badass. He has cool clothes. He's a little less idealistic than the hero. He makes a grand entrance. And does it in half the time the hero does. Why's he a loner? Generally it turns out to be some kind of betrayal, or maybe he lost friends or family and now he just wants to be alone.

Unfortunately, he'll win battles but never win the war. If he's lucky, he might not get killed by the dragon. He's also obnoxiously condescending because all loners are freaks, and, if written badly, has only an informed ability.

The Ineffectual Loner does not understand the power of friendship, or just isn't concerned. The problem is this attitude makes someone pretty single-minded, and he's afraid to trust anyone as an ally or they'd be a liability/distraction. He's also extremely susceptible (if not outright gullible) to villains who know how to think this way. He may catch on eventually, but he'll be a tool (in several senses of the word) for a bit.

An Ineffectual Loner usually starts to catch on to their role the first time they get their ass handed to them, and the other heroes bail him out. This is often a tempting trap laid by the villain, who knows the loner has no friends to warn him about the obvious danger.

a forgiving lead hero will usually be sympathetic to his intentions, even if other characters regarded him as an annoyance. Indeed, sometimes there's a specific character who does that intently — sometimes a little too much.

In short, an isolationist kind of grumpy bear. If he's lucky, he'll be upgraded to rival or sixth ranger. If not, he gets served as a testimonial to going against the series aesop. Some writers take the middle ground to be more fair, but that usually results in conveniently being put on a bus until the writers need them again.

On the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism, these characters only appear in idealistic stories or when the main cast isn't a team. In a cynical story they might be the main character.

A subtrope of the stoic. See also loners are freaks, in the end, you are on your own, the complainer is always wrong. Contrast the aloner, who is a Loner by (apocalyptic) force rather than choice.

