Quite simply, the player is always the "point man," and has the sole responsibility of accomplishing every task of significance. It's your responsibility to defuse that bomb, kill that monster, retrieve those documents, or take out that sniper: It's Up To You.

In shooters, this tends to occur with sniping missions, in which your character is tasked with using a sniper rifle to kill or protect someone, despite the fact that your character has never been acknowledged as a sniper or marksman until now. NPC allies tend to be struck with artificial stupidity such that they are incapable of defeating anything but the most basic mook even when armed with the same weapons as the player.

Similarly, in many RPGs, the main character will be designated to lead the party for no other reason than that he or she is the player's avatar; no matter how much stronger, more important, more intelligent or more experienced the other party members are. Even if this doesn't occur to the character, the group the character is part of frequently falls victim to this trope instead. Anyone trying to beat the big bad who isn't part of the main party will fail, and at best have to be rescued. Equally likely is the character will simply die and give the player greater reason to kill the big bad. It may be shown later that the side character "weakened" the boss if the programmers are trying to deliver an aesop about the power of friendship.

Of course, this is generally forgivable if your character is a super hero or otherwise possesses extraordinary abilities that would warrant his increased involvement, but it can be particularly jarring to one's suspension of disbelief when the plot acts as if you and your AI comrades are of equal skill (such as in most warfare first person shooters). One lazy but occasionally effective way to justify this is to have all your allies out doing other missions, conveniently far away from you, but sometimes the game doesn't even try.

Note the relationship with rule of fun; the player gets to do these things so there'll be more in the game, but the story suffers by focusing all the action on one character.

This always involves but thou must: no matter the situation, the player is powerless to turn down these assignments, even if their character should have the choice.

Essentially, this is the video game equivalent of the only one and the main characters do everything. Also see one-man army, apathetic citizens and evil only has to win once. Players who do the impossible and beat the odds may lament "dude, where's my respect?" due to no recognition.

