A character who is a species unto themself, the only survivor of some calamity that has wiped out their entire civilization. If this civilization used to be important in the power balance between civilizations that still remain, it's now considered missing.

This might mean that they're the last survivor of a particular society or secret order, but for full effect they are actually the last of an entire civilization, or even biological species.

Such a character is liable to manifest some profound survivor guilt, and the prospect of avenging their kind may develop into an obsession that acts as an achilles' heel. It will also provide an excuse for them to be substantially different (read: "better") in skill, abilities, or morality than the rest of the characters. However, the writers still need to be careful as to how they construct this survivor guilt: owing to angst dissonance, even something as traumatic as this can still degenerate into wangst if the character seems determined not to get over it and eventually move on, or if the character's pain is written in an unconvincing fashion.

Will often manifest qualities of the warrior poet or the stranger in a strange land.

Since this kind of loneliness is the sort of thing that could easily drive you mad, evil versions are about as common as good ones, particularly of the nietzsche wannabe strain. In general, being the last of one's kind is a polarizing experience: the only folks who tend to survive the death of their species are either the very best examples, or the very worst. The evil version will often carry a thematic notion that their very existence is an affront to the natural order, as they "ought" to have died with the rest of their kind, and it's rather rude of them to keep hanging on to life well past their time. Some really evil versions might even be responsible for the deaths of the rest of their race in a way (see lobo below), as may the atoner every once in a blue moon (see Tetrax, further below). In either case, if it was an engineered genocide, it just backfired.

Very often, at least for the heroic sort, it will eventually be revealed that there is another.

It is fairly uncommon for such a character to be the lead character, even if they are an important member of the regular cast. Perhaps that level of isolation is just too much for the audience to really wrap their minds around — with most characters who are cut off from their own kind, there is at least the prospect of an eventual reunion. This character lacks even that prospect. However, a common aesop (for the heroic ones at least) they learn is that, even if their race is gone, they aren't truly alone, having people with them who still love and care for them.

Compare fling a light into the future, humanity's wake, uniqueness value, and living relic. genocide backfire and genocide from the inside can both cause this trope. endangered species and dying race are not as extreme versions. Sometimes paired with the aloner for truly horrifying angst. Occasionally played for drama or played for laughs with only you can repopulate my race. Occasionally the Last Of His Kind is of a previously extant barbarian tribe of some kind. If there is another, see adam and eve plot. the collector likely wants to put him in their fantastic nature reserve.

If there was only ever one member of a species, see single specimen species. Not to be confused with a kind of one.

Note that the very last of any species is called an endling.

Contrast with monster progenitor and the chosen many. Compare racial remnant. Overlaps with single specimen species. If this is taking place in an after the end setting or such, don't be surprised if the last man hears a knock.

Spoilers Ahoy!