A character is driven to become the best there is — the richest man in town, the best martial artist in the world, the emperor of the galaxy...and succeeds.

But, along the way, the character winds up abandoning or betraying everyone and everything they ever valued. They will inevitably wind up bitter and alone, having fulfilled their great obsession, but pondering everything they lost in the pursuit — just before losing the thing they obsessed over too. ("If only I'd never left the family farm/talked to that man/become a model/signed that contract/etc.")

This is often a form of reversed wish fulfillment for the viewer, as the average person wants to be able to think that the things they don't have (such as an abnormal amount of money, power, skill or beauty) won't lead to happiness, conveniently forgetting how, in real life, there are plenty of poor, enslaved, stupid and ugly people that are unhappy. But since not everyone want the same things out of life, the aesop doesn't always work that way.

A variant is for a character to achieve immortality, i.e who wants to live forever?, and/or ultimate power i.e god for a day, and become suicidally bored over how meaningless everything is when it's so easy.

This phrase originates from the Chinese proverb "高处不胜寒", which literally means "it's cold at the top (of a mountain)", and describes the loneliness people in high positions experience.

dying alone is often threatened, though if they learn an aesop it may be averted. A common component of a pyrrhic victory.

Often ends in a form of karmic twist ending.

The natural conclusion of ambition is evil and being evil sucks. May overlap with pyrrhic villainy and/or everything but the girl. Contrast celebrity is overrated and in with the in crowd. Characters who are married to the job are especially at risk of having this happen to them. If the character merely gets a whole load of mental problems from trying too hard, he'll become a broken ace.

May overlap with et tu, brute?, victory is boring, i just want to have friends, god for a day, wanting is better than having, and no challenge equals no satisfaction.

