For some reason, the character is mostly ignorant of and often confused by common social conventions and behaviors. They usually grasp enough to minimally function around other people most of the time, but any circumstances outside of their limited experience fluster, puzzle, or (at worst) upset or enrage them.

Someone with no social skills is not necessarily stupid — just unfamiliar with how human beings act around each other. Consequently, they will tend to be blunt, straightforward, and brutally honest. They will expect everyone else to be totally honest, too. From a writing point of view they are an asset: they say things that everyone is thinking but no one would dare say out loud.

One background that can lead to this trope is to be raised by wolves — growing up with animal parents. Alternatively, they may have had an isolated or abused childhood or sacrificed basic skill for awesome training. Or all three. They may be bamboozled by the opposite sex and ask what is this thing you call love?. Alternately, they may have had social skills in the past, but after being away on the quest or some other mission for an extended time, may find themselves unable to reintegrate due to being a shell-shocked veteran or a stranger in a familiar land.

Quite often a point is made of stating that this character is very intelligent or "learns fast" to make sure the audience doesn't just write them off as dense and to justify characters trying to help them adjust, or as an excuse for why they've adjusted as well as they did. If done poorly, either of these versions of intelligence cen become a informed ability.

An extreme form of fish out of water, milder cases may result in cloud cuckoo lander, creepy child, innocent fanservice girl, or no sense of humor. homeschooled kids are usually portrayed this way.

Related to: friendless background and i just want to have friends when the character isn't happy about this situation.

In real life, people with dyssemia and nonverbal learning disorders fit this trope. Additionally, those with autism, such as people with asperger syndrome may fit this trope, due to the fact that their mind is wired differently and as a result they genuinely find it hard to grasp social cues, though this does vary. However, relatively few works are interested in portraying this with strict accuracy. A mild form is common in academia. No Real Life Examples, Please!See not good with people. Contrast with the social expert.

