Hermits are folks who don't live around other folks— and they like it that way. They never say i just want to have friends and they aren't afraid of dying alone. Hermits aren't banished or cut off from society as punishment— they willingly chose to leave it, for whatever reason.

Despite their reclusive lifestyle, fictional hermits may be either friendly or hostile. If a hermit is friendly, their reason for living alone will be that they simply enjoy the solitude. If the hermit is hostile, it's because they're misanthropic. On occasion, the hero will encounter a religious hermit.

Nice or not, almost all hermits are quirky. That's because loners are freaks; they don't conform to society's rules about cleanliness, politeness, or edibleness. Heck, they don't conform to society's standards at all. Hermits generally have a high tolerance to going mad from the isolation, but they're not completely immune. See "quirkiness" above.

Most classic hermits to live in swamps, jungles, deserts, or caves. Modern hermits are more likely to live in cities or towns, but be highly, highly withdrawn, to the point of never interacting with the outside world. hikikomori, basement-dweller, and the reclusive artist are some examples.

If a hero seeks out this person for guidance or training, chances are you're dealing with a hermit guru. Other times when a hero meets up with them on a journey, they may become a kind of one-person wacky wayside tribe.

Use caution when adding examples from Eastern media - "hermit" is a popular translation for the Chinese  and Japanese , but not all xian/sennin embody this trope.

Compare the aloner, for whom social isolation is a terrible punishment. Contrast hates being alone, for when a character really doesn't want to be isolated from others.

 Zepis, the legendary second-rate Boiler Engineer, lives in an abandoned mine on the island where   Gottfried from  There have been a few  At the beginning of   Radagast the Brown in  St Ungulant in  The Canadian novel  Benjamin from  The Once-Ler in  Halloween in   Uncle Rick, from   In the backstory of  In the  Parodied in a  One episode of  In  In the   Timon of  A  'Arry the 'Ermit from   Jolee Bindo in Knights Of the Old Republic Star Wars Game : you find him living in a hut on the surface of Kashyyyk, which is largely populated by dangerous animals and reckless young Wookiees.

 The nameless hermit of   Invoked in   There's of course the Tarot card named "The Hermit", which represents contemplative solitude.

 The early Christian hermits who lived in the deserts of Egypt and Palestine in the fourth and fifth centuries AD; indeed, words like "monk" and "monastery" derive from the Greek word  In 18th century England, the best gardens would have an "ornamental" hermit. This person was hired to live on the grounds in a hovel and appear occasionally for guests...at a distance. They weren't allowed to bathe or cut their nails and hair over their tenure. After several years, the hermit would be let go and paid a large sum of money. Most modern interpretations of hermits are modeled after this fad.

 Somewhat 