There's a crisis, and our beloved protagonists are the only people who can handle the problem.

Unfortunately, this is because all the other people who could take care of it are woefully incompetent.

If the series is about a local police force, the FBI are ivory-tower glory hounds. If the series is about an FBI agent, the local police are all useless corrupt hick types. If the series is about the military, government higher-ups will only be interested in pleasing the voters. If the series is about the government or an anti-military type, then the military will be the evil army commanded by a general ripper type who is just itching to nuke 'em back to the stone age, never mind the asking questions part. If the series is about a rogue hero, all levels of government and law enforcement, plus the military, are either corrupt or clueless, with the possible exception of a reasonable authority figure who will still be be unable to help because of mountains of red tape. And everyone else will just think that it isn't for them to deal with. In those cases where the people who are supposed to be handling the situation are not also bad guys, you can end up with a red shirt army.

Sometimes this is actually warranted by the show's premise, notably Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Dark Angel, Stargate SG-1... okay, any show featuring the chosen one.

A variation that often occurs, particularly in shows or movies where there is a race against the clock situation, is that those who are responsible for taking care of a particular situation (such as the bomb squad) will, for some reason, not be able to make it in time to resolve the problem that the protagonists are facing. In this scenario, the experts may be fully competent and on the side of the angels, but are prevented for some reason from taking care of the problem themselves, meaning that the untrained protagonists are forced to be the only ones who can take care of the problem. This often works to increasing tension; will the non-expert cut the right wire?

Compare the subtropes one riot, one ranger, where it is justified by a specific decision on the part of the authorities, and it's up to you. Compare i work alone, where the hero chooses this voluntarily. Also compare the main characters do everything, where extras aren't shown to be competent nor incompetent, they just never get to do anything. Also also compare the one guy with a brain, where only one guy seems to be competent despite being surrounded by much more qualified experts on the subject. Contrast hero of another story. See also evil only has to win once, because inevitably the stakes are cataclysmic.

