Humans value the useful, the aesthetically pleasing, and the rare— so it is not surprising that we have a deep fascination with characters, races, or objects that are unique. Be it an artifact from a bygone age, a creature that is the last of his kind, or the last knight of an ancient and honorable order. Basically, the more relevant to the story a unique person or object is, the more valuable and worth preserving they are. Friends will fight to protect him, enemies to destroy him, and some even to possess him. Underscoring this is the reverse, that anyone/thing who isn't unique is vastly more expendable.

Maybe this is why both characters, readers, and the author place so much sympathy and interest in these characters. faceless mooks may die by the dozens, but their boss who is The Last Atlantean Wizard will at least get an offer of surrender from the hero. no one cares about destroying robots or ai's... unless they happen to be the only robot who can feel emotion. Or say there's a race of goo-people who are all clones and part of a hive mind? finding ways to toast them would become a tv-show.Relatedly, these unique characters will not just be rare, but powerful. Usually "their kind" is already powerful (which may be why there aren't any more of them left), but being their last representative gives the character a power boost much like the inverse ninja law, sort of an inverse of being a super prototype. Although a super prototype is also generally unique in some way compared to the production models, which die easily, so it could go either way.

It's worth noting that these characters are by no means less likely to die. After all, their demise will evoke such a poignant end of an age nostalgia few authors can resist. Similarly, it's treated as no less a tragedy if they are turned into a broken angel, victim of humanity ensues or somehow brought down to normal.

In real life, this is part of the reason people are motivated to protect endangered species.

Related to a a million is a statistic. See also men are the expendable gender, expendable clone, and backup twin. Compare last of his kind, only you can repopulate my race, endangered species, a kind of one, sparing the aces and fantastic nature reserve. In a roleplaying game situation, leads to special snowflake syndrome.

  Gill Man from  Most viewers of    Averted in  The  The Buggers in   In the   The companion book to  In  In  Once Cylons in  Taelons in   There's usually at least one character like this in the main cast of each  John Crichton of   On at least one occasion,  Same deal for Danny in  Parodied in an episode of  Wander's goal in  Explored in  Runescape has certain items known as Rares, which are items that were given away for free years ago, or were freely/cheaply available - and they include things like paper partyhats, christmas crackers, easter eggs, and half-full jugs of wine. They include the most expensive items in the game and are useless - except for the wearable ones which offer aesthetic value only. Wearable rares are more valuable than non-wearable rares, but you still get things like the half-full jugs of wine being worth hundreds of millions of gold pieces purely from their rarity.

 You may find an intelligent (and very friendly) Troll in   In  In  Fortunately, this is why we're so big on protecting endangered species. Tragically, this is why it's hard to get anyone worked up about a species being over-hunted until there's only a few left.

 The two primary aspects of value are spacial and chronological rarity: how much of something there is, and its longevity. While one might argue that these are only relevant in the context of a thing's utility, that rarely comes into play. It is effectively guaranteed that if something is (or perceived to be) distinct, unique and fragile / short-lived, that humans will covet it eagerly... even if it is completely useless and rather ugly.

