

There once was a character who is so heroic and kind-hearted that this instantly draws others to him, often making them a loyal band of life-long companions. This character has given love and support for his family members. This character has made the worst of enemies into the best of friends, either by circumstance or by force. This character always keeps the band together in perilous times and always sticks close to his loved ones through the good times and the bad times. This character is always sociable to just about everyone they meet.

Then a few years have passed by and the character hasn't really kept in contact with his family and friends. He doesn't take any opportunities to visit them. He may not even bother to pick up the phone and call them or answer their calls. He even doesn't say "hi" to the people he passes by, let alone socialize about things he isn't interested in. This is the implication that the character has turned from sociable and outgoing to introverted and distant.

There may be a couple of reasons for the character's current lack of communication with people:

    If the character's loved ones find the character, expect them to get quite upset with him and will admonish him for being socially inactive for all these years while still telling him how worried of his well being. The hero may explain his reasons, and if his friends empathize with him, then everything's peachy-keen. If not, then the hero may try to earn their trust and respect back the hard way, or just adjust his newly solitary life.

This can be often how the character becomes the ineffectual loner. Contrast loner-turned-friend if a distant character becomes outgoing and friendly to others. This can invoke the belief that loners are freaks and that communication with others is important. Could be the result of break the cutie. Compare used to be a sweet kid and troubled, but cute.

 In   Haruka Kotoura of  The character  Adam Sandler's character in   In  In  In the   In  In  An episode of  This happens to Scully on  The Doctor in   In  Roger in  Both the Warden and Hawke in   In   Zeta (Zimmy) from  Sir   Actor Jeremy Brett was naturally quite outgoing, but had to adopt an introspective and sometimes antisocial persona in his portrayal of  Syd Barrett of 