A character who has been through utter hell, and came out sad, cynical, and wise beyond their years. Part of their wisdom is knowing that it is wasted on most people, so they don't go around babbling it to everybody. Instead, they wait until they see somebody who is worthy, and serve as the worthy one's mentor.

Like an ancient Zen master, a Zen Survivor never gives straight advice. Instead they speak in odd riddles and hints, delighting in cryptic conversation. They also make bizarre demands, and do cruel, seemingly pointless things to their student. This is because (also like a Zen master) they have an omniscient morality license. They know not just the world but their student better than the student does — each of their cruel tests is designed to teach a lesson, and the lesson is always right.

Usually, the Zen Survivor does this because simply giving advice doesn't convince anybody, while odd tests do. If their student is too stubborn to believe them, the Zen Survivor will pretend to give in... and provide just enough rope for the student to hang themselves. Inevitably, the student will come crawling back.

Distinct from the all-powerful bystander in that they hold back knowledge, not talents or powers.

The Zen Survivor can also be evil and generally realize it themselves, but they justify their actions on the basis of ruthless pragmatism (often in the name of the greater good).

 In  Shogo Kawada in  Gordon Rosewater from  Archer from  Gatomon from  Gendo Ikari from    Metaknight from    "Dark Prince" Silver Rayleigh takes this role to Luffy in   In the sequel to  Tyler Durden from   In  Sue in  The version of Pei Mei seen in the  This is what  Kevin Flynn in  Uncle Scrooge has gone through several levels of hell in The Life and Times of Uncle Scrooge. He usually allows Donald Duck to get into trouble knowing the lessons will be worth it. "Someone's about to learn a lesson lads." What's more, Donald and his nephews are worthy of Uncle Scrooge's wisdom and money... he'll just never tell them that.

 High school outcast Shelley in  V in   Armitage in  Thorkell, the burnt-out  Christine Summerfield by the end of  Shogo Kawada from                 Snake of  In  Medivh from  Marlowe in  Nessiah in  Kreia from  n in  Samara in  From  Iroh in 