Item#: SCP-1105

Object Class: Safe

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1105 is to be kept in its sealed habitat within Containment Cell 445-b at Bio-Research Area-12 Containment Cell 1332 at Site-██. A size of roughly 2.8 square meters is to be maintained through provision of plant matter grown within a dedicated greenhouse. A temperature of 15.6° C at 5% humidity is to be maintained with an inbuilt climate control system. Air exiting the cell is to be passed through redundant filtration systems. Containment area is sealed from observation deck via double air-lock. Doors are connected to an exterior locking system allowing them to be sealed in case of emergency or containment breach.

All windows, vents, seams and doorways are to be lined with eletromagnetic coils in continuous operation. EM-shielded CCTV cameras with dual battery backups will be mounted in each corner of the room to provide audiovisual monitoring. If SCP-1105 demonstrates signs of hostility or makes a concerted attempt to escape its enclosure, a scram switch installed in the primary observation area will activate multiple high-pressure jets of dicyanoacetylene to immediately destroy SCP-1105.

Backup samples of SCP-1105's spores are to be kept at Bio-Research Area-12.

Description: SCP-1105 is a species of mobile fungus resembling Fomitiporia ellipsoidea. In sufficiently large concentrations, individual elements grow together into forms and structures beneficial to the whole, though no centralized nervous system can be detected that could be used to direct such growth. SCP-1105 appears to grow most readily upon dead plant matter, and has been observed to become motile in an attempt to reach such matter, though in the absence of viable plant material, the fungus can subsist in an inert state on ambient moisture alone.

Once the fungus locates suitable plant matter, it will undergo a mitotic phase to form a number of filamental mycelia, eventually covering the plant matter and mechanically breaking it down prior to consuming it. Over a period of 24 to 48 hours, subsumed material is used to enlarge these strands, which become thickened and reinforced, and develop a rubbery texture. After these characteristics manifests, the mycelia begin to vibrate, and display evidence of electrical activity. Analysis of of samples taken from fungal growth at this stage indicates no viable means of producing or storing an electrical charge.

After a sufficient fungal mass has accumulated, roughly 5 kilograms, the collective mass will dissociate into 4-6 smaller masses of approximately equal size, referred to as SCP-1105-1. These individual masses display independent motivations, though are apparently capable of assisting each other with tasks such as reaching additional plant matter for consumption.

SCP-1105-1 instances have a tendency to alter their morphology on a near-constant basis to accommodate environmental factors or the task in which they are currently engaged, such as developing a greater number of leg analogues while motile and in search of food, or producing additional mandibles while consuming plant matter. Additionally, individual SCP-1105-1 have been observed to adopt forms resembling organisms in the order Trilobita or Rodentia. Other forms resembling the families Lepidoptera and Gerridae have been observed, but only infrequently. These additional forms appear entirely spontaneously, and do not appear to be triggered by specific external conditions.

Addendum 1: Recovery: SCP-1105 was initially recovered by Foundation operatives in the Heilongjiang province of China on 1987/12/17. Following a significant seismic event in the area, numerous reports had surfaced of a "forest monster" in outlying rural areas. Based on a description closely matching the one given in this document, thirty-nine AMTF Nu-7 agents were dispatched to investigate and report. Within 500 meters of the area where sightings had occurred, the operatives' SUVs were swarmed and subsequently electronically disabled by what the agents estimated as hundreds of instances of SCP-1105-1. The agents rapidly dismounted, drew the instances away from their transports, and engaged them with incendiary munitions, destroying the swarm. After an hour-long search, they discovered an apparent point of origin beyond a path of stripped vegetation adjacent to a hillside. It was later determined that the earlier seismic activity had created a fault in the bedrock, exposing a large cavern containing substantial SCP-1105 growth. It is assumed to have subsisted on ambient moisture and mineral deposits. Following collection of specimen and core samples, the cavern was sterilized via dicyanoacetylene saturation detonation and subsequently collapsed and sealed with ANFO.

Addendum 2: Aquatics: While instances of SCP-1105-1 have displayed an ability to adapt and travel upon the surface of a body of water, they have been shown to be unable to thrive underwater. If forcibly submerged for an extended period of time they will simply fall apart.

Addendum 3: Senses: While it is apparent that animated SCP-1105-1 are unable to process light as a sensory medium, they seem to be able to sense movement by detecting air currents and electromagnetic fields generated by animate beings. SCP-1105-1 simply flee from these fields. As such, electromagnets have been incorporated into the containment procedures.