SCP-1120 shortly after acquisition.

Item #: SCP-1120

Object Class: Safe

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1120 is to be contained within a standard containment locker, located in Site-77's Safe SCP wing. No edible substance is to be placed within SCP-1120's empty cavity outside of testing. Any personnel exposed to SCP-1120 in its active state are to leave its active zone immediately and report to the medical staff for treatment. A full physical evaluation is required before return to active duty.

Description: SCP-1120 is a handmade copper bowl, believed to have been constructed in Egypt between ███ and ███ CE. Chemical analysis of SCP-1120's exterior have shown traces of several minerals not naturally found in Egypt.

Subjects who consume solid substances from SCP-1120 will have permanent alterations made to their digestive system. The stomach ceases production of gastric acid and the duodenum swells shut, trapping food within the stomach. SCP-1120 renders vomiting and regurgitation of food impossible by suppressing activity in the brain in the area postrema. These alterations do not affect the salivary glands and esophagus, which will continue to function normally. At the time of death the stomach contains an average of three kilograms of food, the majority of which has begun to decompose. The decomposition process causes the stomach to swell to the point that the pressure the stomach exerts will damage internal organs. Without treatment, exposure has a 100% mortality rate. Current treatments consist of surgery to remove stomach contents. Subjects affected by SCP-1120 may still receive sustenance intravenously.

However, if the subject consumes liquid from SCP-1120, the salivary glands, esophagus, and interior of the subjects mouth will be affected. Portions of the body containing calcium, such as teeth, will lose any discoloration and become brittle. Esophageal tissue will become sensitive to the point that consumption of anything other than liquids becomes extremely painful. Salivary glands will produce saliva at a severely reduced rate, inducing the consumption of additional liquids. This will cause electrolyte imbalance, which can result in mental instability and death.

SCP-1120 was discovered in 1979, by Foundation assets posted at an observation site in Egypt. After initiating operations against an ORIA unit interfering with Foundation activities in the area, MTF-████-██ engaged forces defending ruins in the [REDACTED] province. During the engagement, task force members discovered SCP-1120 inside a burial chamber, with damaged hieroglyphics on the chamber walls. Records recovered during post-operation investigation confirmed SCP-1120 as an anomalous object, and as of 12/15/1980 classified as Safe.

Addendum: Translation of the hieroglyphics discovered with SCP-1120 has been partially successful, with most undamaged portions being succesfully translated. A copy of the translation has been added this report.

In the eleventh year, men came to travel in…presented the lord of the palace with gifts. Ornate bowl, which would give the user beauty and make lords appearance like that of a pillar…Left on horseback, palace lord came under illness that no man in the…King ordered burial in a hidden chamber…never were matched or found in any land.