SCP-1156 wearing its top hat

Item #: SCP-1156

Object Class: Safe

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1156 is to be housed in a stable adjacent to the Secure Outdoor Testing Facility at Site 73, and is to be provided with food, water, bedding, grooming, and veterinary examination appropriate to a non-anomalous animal of its species. SCP-1156's stable is to be cleaned daily. SCP-1156 may be allowed supervised access to the Secure Outdoor Testing Facility for exercise and grazing purposes during daylight hours when no testing is scheduled. Any clothing changes exhibited by SCP-1156 are to be documented and monitored.

SCP-1156's cooperation with the Foundation is currently predicated on its belief that it is a paid employee of the Foundation. During good behavior, SCP-1156 is to be assigned "work" of a low-priority nature, appropriate to its abilities. SCP-1156 is to be "paid" bi-weekly with scrip bearing a face value equivalent to the current UK minimum wage, minus legally permitted deductions for room and board, and is to be allowed to purchase approved sundries with said scrip from the Site 73 quartermaster. Failure to cooperate with Foundation personnel shall result in suspension of the above privileges.

The Foundation is to monitor sales and transfers of domesticated horses in the United Kingdom for any additional horses presenting SCP-1156's characteristics. In the event that any such specimens are identified, the Foundation is to acquire the animal as soon as possible for separate containment at Site 73.

Description: SCP-1156 is a male domesticated horse (Equus ferus caballus) of indeterminate breed and unknown age, approximately 1.7 meters in height. SCP-1156's tongue, palate, lips, and vocal cords are shaped in a manner not found in non-anomalous horses, allowing it to produce phonemes used in human speech. SCP-1156's brain is approximately ██% larger than the brain of a non-anomalous horse, and possesses several anatomical regions of unknown purpose or function.

SCP-1156 is sapient and is able to speak English with a thick accent resembling that historically spoken by natives of the East End of London, UK ("Cockneys" in common use), and claims to have been born and resided in the London borough of Whitechapel prior to its coming into Foundation custody. SCP-1156 identifies itself as "Wellington G. Wonderhorse" and describes itself as part of a community of sapient horses living openly throughout the East End (a claim which has not yet been corroborated by Foundation research.) SCP-1156 has demonstrated a limited ability to manipulate tools and simple machines with its lips, teeth, and tongue, including an ability to write by holding a pen in its mouth.

SCP-1156 possesses a limited form of telekinesis, comprising an ability to dress itself by spontaneously manifesting clothing tailored to fit a large horse directly onto itself. Most frequently, this clothing takes the form of a silk top hat and a light blue scarf bearing the monogram "W.G.W." in gold embroidery, though SCP-1156 has demonstrated an ability to produce other articles of clothing, including neckties of various styles, coats, eyeglasses, masks, heraldic banners, harnesses, bridles and bits, and on one occasion upon a request from research staff, a full suit of articulated plate armor. Clothing manifested by SCP-1156 spontaneously disappears when SCP-1156 dresses itself differently; the source of the clothing and its ultimate disposition upon demanifesting is unknown. Forensic examination of the clothes themselves indicates that they are composed of common fabrics and metals and bear no anomalous properties in and of themselves.

SCP-1156 was acquired by the Foundation in 20██ following a raid on a country club in [REDACTED], UK, owned by Marshall, Carter & Dark Ltd. SCP-1156 claimed to have been taken prisoner by MC&D six months prior after responding to a want ad for coach horses and forced to perform various tasks for the guests of the club. SCP-1156 describes itself as a professional coach horse and has been convinced at this time that the Foundation is employing him for that purpose.

+ Show Interview Log 1156-1

- Hide Interview Log 1156-1

Interview Log 1156-1:

Dr. Samesh: Please state your name for the record.

SCP-1156: Wellington Garrett Wonderhorse, at your service, milord! Finest coach 'orse in Whitechapel, and that's no eel!

Dr. Samesh: And you have lived in Whitechapel your entire life, is that correct?

SCP-1156: Born to the sound of the Bow Bells, sir, just like me old dad, and 'is before 'im, and 'is before 'im! We're an old and proud lineage, we are. My grandpa always said there's been Wonderhorses pullin' folks 'round London since they signed the Magna Carta.

Dr. Samesh: And there are more horses like you?

SCP-1156: You're a fellow Blighter, aren't ya? 'Aven't you ever been to London? There's thousands of us all over the Joe! Millions, maybe… not as many as in me grandpa's day, sure.

Dr. Samesh: So you wouldn't say there's anything unusual about your being able to speak?

SCP-1156: I've never met an 'orse that couldn't, milord.

Dr. Samesh: And your making clothes appear?

SCP-1156: Well, a bloke's got to look dignified when he's working for a room-and-board or the Oxford and 'er kids, 'asn't 'e? Watch this, then.

(SCP-1156 affects a "posh" accent.)

SCP-1156: Good morning, ma'am. How do you do? Shall we be heading to the chapel this morning? Mind your step.

(SCP-1156 resumes its normal manner of speech.)

SCP-1156: Dad started teachin' me that when I was barely a yearling. I was teachin' me own God-forbids before I wound up 'ere, so they can take up the family trade when they're old enough.

Dr. Samesh: You have a family?

SCP-1156: Been married to the ol' trouble six years now. We've got three little ones now - Michael, he should just be starting school now, then there's Emily, and our yearling Gareth. He was already saying his first dickies when I got taken in by those Berkley 'unts at MC&D.

Dr. Samesh: And how did you find yourself in the custody of Marshall, Carter, & Dark?

SCP-1156: Well, work's been 'ard to come by these days. Everyone's gone 'orseless, and there's not as much call for coach 'orses as back in me grandpa's day. Amy's been helping out at our local on Sundays, but with things bein' the way they are they 'aven't got much work for 'er either. We've been behind on the Burton, and the landlord was talkin' about evicting us. Said if it weren't for the council breathin' down 'is neck 'e'd never 'ave rented to no 'orses in the first place.

Dr. Samesh: Go on.

SCP-1156: So I sees this ad in the Times, coach 'orses wanted to work in a country club. So I put on me finest suit and trot on down to Knightsbridge and tell the man in the office I want the job.

Dr. Samesh: Did they hire you right away?

SCP-1156: Hired? Now that's a load of 'orseshit right there. Never saw so much as five quid for six straight months. I told 'em I'd be writing me Member of Parliament! They just laughed and treated me unmerciful. I mean, this breakfast ain't exactly the Four Seasons, but it puts that village to shame.

Dr. Samesh: What sort of work did they have you doing?

Letter written by SCP-1156

SCP-1156: Pulling coaches, giving rides, serving drinks, magic shows… all the most embarrassing things you can imagine. Sometimes they'd get a crowd together and bring in one of the ladies after she'd had too much tiddlywink, and they'd want me to betray me marital vows with 'er! Right in front of 'em all gawking and laughing. Now I'm not a church-going 'orse, milord, but even I know a sin when I see one!

Dr. Samesh: Do you know where your family is now?

SCP-1156: Well, we always lived at [DATA EXPUNGED], Whitechapel, but they've probably been evicted by now. Amy'll 'ave sent the kids to live with 'er sister in Shepherd's Bush. She's a good soul, but I just can't stand the way she puts on airs ever since she married that donkey. They're just a queer sort, know what I mean?

Dr. Samesh: I see. That will be all for today.

SCP-1156: Wait. Could you send 'em a letter for me? I 'aven't 'eard from 'em since those 'Ampton Wicks got their 'ands on me. It's right in the corner by me trough.

Dr. Samesh: We'll consider it.

Afterword: Upon investigating the address provided by SCP-1156, the Foundation found a currently uninhabited two-bedroom apartment. The building manager stated that the previous residents had been evicted six months prior and could not vouch for their current whereabouts, and refused to discuss them in any detail, stating that they had been "nothing but trouble" during their entire stay.