SCP-1332-2 in transition to SCP-1332-3

Item #: SCP-1332

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: Vials containing samples of SCP-1332-1 are to be hermetically sealed and kept in refrigerated storage. Specimens of SCP 1332-2 are to be contained in sealed holding cells and monitored for transition to 1332-3. These cells are to be monitored remotely and inspected daily for damage. In the event of a breach by SCP 1332-3, the damaged holding cell and the surrounding area are to be sterilized via a controlled thermobaric explosion.

Description: SCP-1332 is a pathogen suspected to be artificial in nature, though a source has yet to be accurately determined. In its culture state, designated SCP-1332-1, it is a thick, metallic gray paste, similar in color and sheen to mercury. Its semisolid state renders airborne transmission impossible; to date, all instances of infection have resulted from direct, unprotected handling of SCP-1332-1 or injuries caused by SCP-1332-2 and-3.

When a living being becomes infected with SCP-1332 (usually through direct exposure to subcutaneous tissue via cuts and scrapes), it begins the transformation to SCP-1332-2. This transformation manifests externally as flu-like symptoms (soreness, exhaustion, nausea) that subside over the course of two (2) to three (3) days. During this period, SCP-1332 converts the subject's bone and muscular structure into an amorphous mass, superficially resembling SCP-1332-1. Despite being essentially homogeneous, the mass within SCP-1332-2 still performs all the functions of the replaced systems, such as maintaining structure, allowing movement and reflexive actions, and protecting vulnerable organs from damage.

The subject's nervous system remains intact, though somewhat displaced by the subject's internal changes. The autonomic nervous system seems to maintain the density and structure of the mass, allowing SCP-1332-2 to maintain the appropriate shape. Theoretically, it is possible for specimens of SCP-1332-2 to live fully normal lives without ever becoming aware of their condition. Research staff are expressly prohibited from testing this theory.

SCP-1332-3 manifests in one of two ways: SCP-1332-2 becoming aware of the nature of their condition or SCP-1332-2 attempting to undertake a physical activity they are unaccustomed to. Either situation causes the autonomic nervous system to momentarily cease its usual functions as SCP-1332-2 attempts to consciously exert control over their own body. In the majority of cases, this leads to a complete structural collapse of the subject's internal support systems. It is hypothesized that this is a result of subjects being unable to maintain the level of conscious control needed to keep their natural shapes. This frequently leads to the death of the subject through internal hemorrhaging and bruising (due to unprotected organs striking the ground) or suffocation (caused by the lungs and esophagus becoming unable to expand due to sudden weight) . In rare instances, subjects will manage to regain some control over their own structure, which very frequently leads to massive lacerations and blood loss as the panicked subject inadvertently pierces their own skin from within as they fight to control their shape.

On the rare occasion a subject survives this collapse, they are designated SCP-1332-3 and are to be relocated as described in Containment Procedures, above. Specimens of SCP-1332-3 rarely survive longer than two or three days due to their new physiology rendering eating and drinking difficult (if not impossible), but observation has suggested that SCP-1332-3 retains at least some of its human cognitive abilities. The amount varies from subject to subject (the transformation from SCP-1332-2 to -3 often results in trauma directly to the brain), but subjects have been shown to attempt to move towards persons and objects familiar to them, to retreat from examples of phobias specific to the subject, or have even attempted to embrace personnel they perceive as friendly.

Addendum: Specimens of SCP-1332-3 often become violent and hostile as their condition persists. This mental degradation was initially attributed to a combination of brain damage and psychological trauma associated with the transformation, but even the most coherent, undamaged specimens of SCP 1332-3 tend to exhibit extremely violent behavior within a week of their transformation. When enraged, SCP 1332-3 will begin lashing out at nearby personnel by shaping their forms into pseudopods or bone-like spines. SCP-1332-3 will go to incredible lengths to reach their targets: subjects have been seen secreting portions of themselves into spaces as small as half a millimeter (.5mm) wide in order to create an opening large enough to accommodate their mass. (See Incident Report 1332-I9, below) While in this hostile state, specimens of SCP-1332-3 have been observed to leave wounded victims alive in favor of pursuing nearby uninjured targets. Hostile SCP-1332-3 usually attempt to inflict as many wounds on as many living beings as possible before being subdued or attempting to flee.

Incident Report 1332-I9

Before this capability was discovered, a specimen of SCP-1332-3 breached containment by exploiting a small imperfection in the wall of its holding cell. The specimen was able to secrete itself into the cracks and expand itself, weakening the structural integrity of the cell until it was able to breach the wall and escape. This resulted in the deaths of two guards and Assistant Researcher █████, as well as serious injuries to four additional personnel. While being treated for these injuries, personnel were discovered to have already begun the transformation to SCP-1332-2. Infected personnel were terminated.