Item #: SCP-1349

Object Class: Euclid

A fully grown SCP-1349 specimen in containment

Special Containment Procedures: All specimens of SCP-1349 in the Foundation's possession are to be kept in a reinforced 1m x 2m x 2m terrarium, vacant of all organisms but specimens of SCP-1349. At no point should more than fifteen (15) specimens be kept in containment. The terrarium is to be cleaned out bi-monthly, and any eggs present at this point should be frozen. Any excess instances of SCP-1349 or those found outside of containment should be killed and incinerated at earliest convenience. Once per week the colony of SCP-1349 is to be fed 2kg of meat in a moderate state of decomposition. Staff members not handling SCP-1349, are also required to wear standard bio-hazard suits regardless of proximity to the handler.

Description: SCP-1349 are a variant of the Calosoma sycophanta beetle. SCP-1349 do not pass the larval stage and grow to be between approximately 5 and 15cm. The saliva of SCP-1349 is slightly corrosive and causes an acute allergic reaction on the skin of a living organism upon contact. SCP-1349 produces a chemical similar in structure to Reversine within the salivary glands.

If SCP-1349 bites a living organism, it injects a chemical compound into the bloodstream of the organism. This compound induces marked changes in the reproduction and characteristics of the cells in the mucous membranes of the stomach. This triggers the growth of multiple neoplasms after a period of four to six days , averaging between 9 and 20mm, which function as miniature stomachs. These growths are connected to the digestive tract by several vessels all leading back to the main stomach of the subject, and initially aid in the digestive process. Any organism bitten by SCP-1349 is labeled as SCP-1349-1.

These growths will begin to spread to the intestinal tract of the subject after an additional three days. In 35% of cases, these micro-stomachs will also begin to spread to the esophagus and lungs of the subject, effectively drowning them in gastric acid. After approximately fourteen days from the initial growth, the digestive tract will begin to overflow with gastric acid, causing the stomach of the subject to rupture and causes death in 60% of cases, the gastric acid reducing a large portion of the body to a slurry. In the other 40% of cases, the growths do not reach critical mass in the body, and the subject dies from extreme malnutrition as the food ingested is broken up rapidly before the body can properly absorb it. Any substance digested by these cysts are no longer found in the subject's body; the subject is also found to lose weight equivalent to the mass of the substance consumed regardless of what the substance's mass would be post digestion. Any attempts to operate on the growths so far have ruptured them, revealing them to be filled with a liquid similar in nature to SCP-1349's saliva.

SCP-1349 was brought to the Foundation's attention after an abnormally high percentage of patients were diagnosed with gastric cancer in ██████ Oregon. Investigations into the area revealed an infestation of approximately █████ specimens of SCP-1349 in a local slaughter house. The building was demolished and any affected corpses were incinerated, all unafflicted citizens were administrated Class A amnesiacs. Since coming to the Foundation's attention, ██ smaller outbreaks have been noted nationwide. See Addendum 1349-3

Addendum 1349-1: Researcher █████'s notes on the reproductive cycle of SCP-1349 are as follows

The adult specimen will puncture an organism's skin and inject saliva into the wound.

After approximately fourteen days the organism's stomach ruptures and partially digests the corpse.

SCP-1349 will retrieve the largest remaining growths and relocate them to the nearest safe area, where they are drained and filled with eggs, if there has been no available organism to infect and harvest SCP-1349 will lay approximately six (6) eggs every two months.

The larva eat their way out of the neoplasm's membrane and survive on slurry until adulthood.

Specimen expire naturally after five months

Addendum 1349-2: During observation, Doctor ████ noticed several specimens swelling. Testing revealed that the mass gained was equal to that lost by SCP-1349-1. Testing of the contents of the observed SCP-1349's stomachs revealed that they contained trace amounts of the food recently ingested by SCP-1349-1 in an advanced state of digestion. The subject initially bitten by the SCP-1349 specimens was currently undergoing chemotherapy ██km away from the site.

Addendum 1349-3: Security footage at a mall in █████, Iowa shows an unidentified male releasing several SCP-1349 specimens in the food court after closing hours. Several fliers in local clubs depict SCP-1349's saliva as some form of miracle weight-loss supplement.