Item #: SCP-1399

Object Class: Safe

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1399 is to be kept on a plain wooden desk in the middle of a locked room, open to the last page, with a camera observing it at all times. If the page is observed to change in any way, notify the Site Administrator.

Description: SCP-1399 is a thin, fifteen page children’s book titled “Another Way of Hearing.” The cover depicts the earth, with the title above it. There is no author indicated on the cover. SCP-1399’s ISBN correlates to no assigned ISBN, and its labeled publisher, Detiskia Books, corresponds to no recognized publishing company.

When read sequentially, one page at a time in its entirety, it consists of a variety of disconnected visual images that have strongly associated auditory connections, along with the words “Another Way of Hearing [Image]”. Page three, for instance, is an image of a train, below which are the words “Another Way of Hearing Trains.” All of the pages, save for the last one, have not changed while within Foundation hands.

The anomalous effect of the book occurs once the last page is turned and the book closed: immediately, the reader ceases to be able to receive any auditory stimuli from the real world. Instead, their eardrums will resonate and react to what has been determined as the sounds of a variety of alternate worlds. This effect extends only to hearing, with sight, touch, taste and smell apparently unaffected.

It has been determined that the particular alternate universe to which the book attunes its reader is dependent on the last page, which changes periodically. All readers who experience the effect between changes have been determined to be hearing the same world. A list of recorded diversions and related images can be found in Document-1399B.

The last page so far has appeared to change at the same time as a variety of major world-altering events occur. The book seems to re-attune people’s hearing to a world where that event occurred differently, usually in a catastrophically negative way.

This phenomenon has been noted to create considerable distress among D-class personnel due to disorientation from a difference in auditory and visual stimuli: for this reason it is advised to provide any affected personnel with a pair of high-quality earplugs to assist with concentration during interviews and in the interest of preserving their sanity. D-class personnel subjected to the effects of SCP-1399 are exempt from monthly terminations until all possible acoustic mapping of the particular alternate reality has been completed.

Document-1399A

Page Change Procedure

If at any time, the last page of SCP-1399 is observed to change, three D-class personnel are to be recruited on a voluntary basis; due to their subsequent removal from monthly terminations, volunteers have proved relatively easy to find. To prevent complications, personnel are to be briefed of the effects of SCP-1399 before exposure.

Once subjected to SCP-1399, the first D-class is to be escorted to an adjacent soundproofed room that has been previously set up for this procedure with a television and radio programmed up to cycle through several news channels periodically. The D-class is then to be provided with a writing utensil and paper for them to record all possibly relevant information pertaining to the divergence. After eight hours, conduct a written interview and rotate in the second D-class. Continue process every eight hours until all possible information had been collected.

Document-1399B

An abridged record of the observed forms of the last page of SCP-1399 and its apparent correlating world event divergence.

March 12, 2011: Page changes.

New page: [An image of waves breaking on a sandy beach] Caption: “Another Way of Hearing Waves".

Associated world event: 9.0 magnitude earthquake in Japan.

Established Diversion: The Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant doesn't stabilize, hitting meltdown instead: superheated reactor steam breaks containment and escapes in large quantities, causing mass irradiation and fallout over much of Japan.

April 29, 2011: Page changes.

New page: [An image of church bells swinging in a chapel tower] Caption: "Another Way Of Hearing Bells"

Associated world event: Marriage of Kate Middleton and Prince William of Great Britain

Established Diversion: Paramilitary commandos storm Westminster Abbey, murdering all present royal personages and state officials as the beginning of a coup d'etat by a separatist faction: Britain descends into civil war.

June 3, 2011: Page changes.

New page: [An image of a fighter jet] Caption: "Another Way Of Hearing Planes"

Associated world event: Attempted assassination of Yemen President, Ali Abdullah Saleh

Established Diversion: After being taken to Saudia Arabia for medical treatment, a second assassination attempt occurs and succeeds. Israel's Mossad is implicated: Yemen declares war on Israel. Yemeni officials acquire nuclear weapons through undetermined channels and utilize them: nearly all of Israel destroyed or contaminated in resulting 15 Mt explosion. Nuclear holocaust ensues.

August 27, 2011: Page changes.

New page: [An image of a rainy day outside a window] Caption: "Another Way Of Hearing Rain"

Associated world event: Hurricane Irene makes landfall

Established Diversion: Hurricane Irene unexpectedly and inexplicably develops into a Category 5 storm and sweeps along the Eastern seaboard, causing billions of dollars in damages: New York City is devastated. Number of casualties unable to be estimated by D-class personnel.