Item #: SCP-1419

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: The signal which SCP-1419 is broadcast upon is continually jammed by the Foundation. Broadcasts of SCP-1419 are to be recorded by Foundation personnel upon transmission. All recorded broadcasts of SCP-1419 are located in the Media Storage Vault of Site-12 and may be accessed by Level 3 or above researchers, as well as Level 2 researchers assigned to catalog the records.

Current efforts to discover any privately owned copies of SCP-1419 are headed by Dr. Lemens and Agent Dan Brooks. Any individual found to possess a recording of SCP-1419 is to be given a Class-A amnestic after questioning by Foundation personnel. To date, over twenty-six (26) private copies of SCP-1419 have been discovered and taken into Foundation custody. It is unknown how the owners managed to locate or record the broadcast.

Description: SCP-1419 is a television signal. In a majority of cases (85%), the signal will display static. However, the static will occasionally be replaced with religious programming, including sermons, religious rites and funerals. While several of the religions shown appear to be similar to current or ancient faiths (see Addendum 1419-4), a majority bear little or no resemblance to any known theology.

Records indicate the signal is owned by a corporation named "Learning With God". In multiple interviews with employees of the station which originally owned the signal, it was discovered that the only contact between the original owners and "Learning With God" was through e-mails. The papers regarding the signal's ownership were faxed to a non-existent number, and were sent back signed by a "Mr. Discodei" the following morning. When questioned about contacting the federal government during the transaction, the original owner stated that the idea "never came to mind". It is unknown how the transfer occurred, as typical broadcast license transfers require government approval. Possible mind-affecting qualities of SCP-1419 are being investigated.

SCP-1419 Broadcast Record Log

– hide block

Log 1419-1:

Date

Summary of Broadcast

Further Information

1964.8.16

Presentation of a sermon delivered by a man of Polynesian descent. The man speaks about the "sin of guidance", encouraging parents to allow their children to act on their own in life. The man cites an apparently holy book multiple times, though he does not directly name the book. The camera occasionally cuts to audience members, a majority of whom are dressed in a formal fashion and also of Polynesian descent, though there are several who are of Australian Aboriginal descent.

First recorded broadcast on SCP-1419.

1967.3.25

The broadcast opens in a large, white room. The area lacks any notable features or furniture/decoration. Over the course of one (1) hour, five (5) men enter the room at twelve (12) minute intervals each. While in the room, the men bend their knee and face away from the camera. Each man places a small statue of a killer whale (Orcinus orca), then leaves.

No additional information.

1978.7.1

There is no visual component to the signal, which displays a black screen. A female voice can be heard speaking. The audio is extremely quiet, and occasionally becomes silent. The language used bears similarities to the Hessian dialect of Middle High German, though due to major differences, only a portion has been translated by the Foundation.

Several phrases in the broadcast are very similar or identical to lines from Chaucer's Canterbury Tales.

1981.12.25

The camera is placed in the back of a crowded church, identified by Foundation architects as San Jeronimo el Real (Saint Jerome Royal Church) in Madrid. The church's architecture possesses notable alterations, including several side rooms not present in the actual cathedral. The first section of the program is a Christmas Day Sermon by a Native American man identified as "Father Pachacutec" by a large banner inside the church. The priest's sermon describes the birth of Jesus Christ in a notably different manner than traditional Christianity, involving the death of Mary and Joseph, as well as the ritual slaughter of several animals. (see Document 1419-34, "Transcript of Christmas 1981 Broadcast" for full speech). The speaker then leads the crowd outside to a stadium. The signal ended at this point, returning to static.

Please refer to Document 1419-34 for further information.

1981.5.6

The setting is a standard Roman Catholic church in a state of extreme disrepair. There are multiple frames for stain glass windows, many of which are broken or missing. Several pews are overturned, and the building appears to suffer from fire damage. The only individual inside is a young woman dressed in a robe similar to those worn by Dominican monks. The woman is praying in front of the altar. There is a large cross on the altar, with two more axes added diagonally, resulting in a shape resembling an asterisk. The camera zooms in on the woman's hands, which are moving along a Möbius strip in a similar manner to rosary beads.

No further information.

1982.12.25

A continuation of the broadcast from the same date in the previous year. The stadium is filled with several thousand people, many of whom are visibly intoxicated. The center of the arena is occupied by a large stone and a man tied to it. The man is armed with an airsoft gun, and proceeds to fight several other men dressed in robes and holding machetes. The broadcast ends when the "sacrifice" victim is killed.

The ceremony presented is very similar to that performed by Aztecs in honor of Xipe Totec1. See Addendum 1419-1 for further information.

1991.9.28

A group of African men are gathered around a large fire. Above the fire is a rotating pole, which has impaled a large bird. The bird, similar in appearance to a harpy eagle (Harpia harpyja), is estimated at four (4) meters in length. The men proceed to carve and eat the bird, before performing a traditional Islamic salah2.

No additional information.

1994.2.18

A large crowd is gathered on a beach, led by a woman wearing a plague doctor's mask3 as well as a suit and tie. She sits in a plastic chair, and begins to read from a large, leather-bound book. The woman's voice is clear, despite the mask on her face. The language used throughout her monologue bears similarities to both Arabic and French, though the transcript has yet to be translated (refer to Document 1419-57 for full available record). After reading, the woman leads the crowd into the ocean, which appears to be a shade of orange.

Last broadcast before "dark period" of over a decade, where static was constant. Refer to Addendum 1419-2 for further information.

2011.6.14

A group of children are in a trench which extends off camera into the distance. There are several Stars of David carved in the trench. After forty-five (45) minutes, a man climbs down from above the trench and begins to read from a noticeably aged paper scroll. The scroll is visible to the camera, and written in Hebrew. Foundation translators have determined a portion of the scroll is a copy of Micah 3:1-4, which denounced the leaders of Israel for cannibalism and the prophets for corruption.

Most recent broadcast. See Addendum 1419-3 for further information.

Addendum 1419-1: On February 7th, 1983, Foundation operatives in Oaxaca, Mexico received reports of a police raid on a cult suspected of human sacrifice. Said cult was routinely offering gifts to traditional Mesoamerican gods, and recently held a festival in honor of the god Xipe Totec. During the festival, a tourist was kidnapped and forced to engage in a mock battle with cult members. The tourist survived and was freed by the group. The former captive then went to the authorities, leading to the raid.

The incident, due to its odd nature, was initially brought to Foundation attention. Recent review of SCP-1419 has led researchers to suspect a connection between the December 25th broadcast of 1982 and the cult incident. Further investigation is currently underway.

Addendum 1419-2: Shortly after the February 18th, 1994 broadcast was aired (10 P.M.), Foundation contacts at medical centers across the West Coast began receiving a large number of patients who attempted suicide by drowning. The total number of individuals who attempted suicide was seven hundred fifty six (756), eighty two (82) of whom succeeded. The survivors could provide no reasoning for their actions, and were released following standard medical treatment. As of the writing of this document, the event is considered anomalous, but not definitely linked to SCP-1419.

Addendum 1419-3: Several Foundation researchers and agents noted that on June 18th and 19th, 2011, a large number of synagogues and churches in New York City were focusing on the Book of Micah, specifically, the section shown in the most recent broadcast. When questioned, the priests and rabbis failed to provide a reason for their choice, stating that they felt it was appropriate. All interviewed subjects were given Class-C amnestics, and the incident is under investigation.

Addendum 1419-4: Foundation researchers have noticed similarities between the religions shown in SCP-1419 broadcasts and modern Roman Catholicism, as well as Mesoamerican faiths, early forms of Japanese Shintoism, and Khoisan4 mythology.

Footnotes

1. Aztec god of agriculture, also known as the "flayed god".

2. Daily form of prayer directed towards Mecca.

3. During the outbreak of the Bubonic Plague in the 14th century, many doctors wore masks resembling bird beaks. The beak held strong herbs used to prevent miasma ("bad air"), and indicated the doctor's profession.

4. A group of indigenous people of Southern Africa, often referred to as "Bushmen".