Item #: SCP-1465

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1465 is to be contained within a standard Type-05 humanoid containment unit. No further physical security is necessary.

No photographs, filmed material, or cameras of any kind are to come in contact with SCP-1465 outside of testing procedures. SCP-1465 is permitted to requisition recreational items that do not include photographs or live-action filmed material at the discretion of supervisory personnel.

SCP-1465 has been cleared for check-ups with Dr. Ottmier every month, with changes in eyeglass prescription and other treatments as needed.

Description: SCP-1465 is a European female of Greek-American descent, twenty-three years of age and measuring 171 cm tall. SCP-1465 does not bear any physical or mental abnormalities, with the exception of heavy damage to the cornea and conjunctiva due to repeated photokeratitis. SCP-1465 has been issued protective sunglasses to aid with the subject's sensitivity to bright light. A tattoo is located on the inside of the left forearm, which reads: “Γενηθήτω φως” (Let there be light).

When in contact with a photograph or filmed material, SCP-1465 is capable of extracting light from the photograph or film, forming a sphere 10-15 centimeters in diameter, which may then be moved about by SCP-1465. This sphere emits light with equal luminosity to the environment in which the photograph or film was taken, and closer inspection reveals it to consist of seven separate layers, each corresponding with a spectral color of the visible spectrum, with each layer consisting of a complex pattern of geometric shapes.

Upon extraction, the photograph or film will turn black and will no longer display any image. Films affected in this way will retain sound. SCP-1465 is not capable of affecting artistic depictions, heavily-doctored images, or animated films.

After the formation of the sphere, SCP-1465 will, if permitted, remove any eyewear worn at the time and enter a state of heightened concentration, viewing the sphere for a period lasting between fifteen and seventy-five minutes, ignoring most external stimuli during the process. Upon completion, the sphere will dissipate: however, this is a voluntary act carried out by SCP-1465, and the extracted light may be dissipated at any time. This process is believed to be responsible for the majority of the subject’s eye damage. Affected photographs do not return to normal after dissipation of light.

Recovery Log: SCP-1465 was recovered on ██/██/2013, after the subject was witnessed demonstrating anomalous properties while visiting the Ansel Adams exhibit at the [REDACTED] Museum of Art. The subject was, at the time of recovery, suffering from caffeine overdose and severe sleep deprivation. Class-C amnestics and a cover story of petty vandalism were distributed with no complications.

A total of 3123 pages of handwritten and typed notes, 126 photo albums with annotations, and 45 cameras were acquired from SCP-1465’s apartment during recovery. Recovered materials detail various theories and experiments carried out by SCP-1465. (See Document 1465-EX for further details.) The bulk of materials were extraction results, where extraction patterns were converted into a 1477-symbol cypher and constructed language created by SCP-1465 for purposes of recording large amounts of data from viewed patterns.

Addendum-01: The following excerpt is from an interview carried out on ██/██/2013, three days after recovery.

Dr. █████: When did you first discover your properties?

SCP-1465: Ah…you know, I don’t really know. Must have been ten, eleven…it wasn’t a whole ‘hey girl you have superpowers now’ thing, didn’t get bit by a radioactive Kodak or anything. Took me a while to even realize it was happening. Then it’s a little here, a little there, figuring out what I can do, and before you know it I’m locking myself in a darkroom for forty hours at a time.

Dr. █████: Mmm. Your notes were very thorough on the subject of your properties.

SCP-1465: No use just sitting around on my hands and daydreaming about it. Gotta get something done, girl. ‘S what my mom always said.

Dr. █████: Of course. That’s very sound advice.

SCP-1465: Any chance I can get my notes back?

Dr. █████: No, I’m afraid.

SCP-1465: Ah. One of those deals. Any chance we can pull a ‘This is my side of the room, that’s your side’ deal? Just leaving things be?

Dr. █████: I’m sorry, but no. [Clears throat]. Moving on, while your notes have been a great help in studying your case, deciphering them has been something of a difficulty.

SCP-1465: I didn’t really intend for anyone else to read my personal research, so it’s pretty much completely your fault there. You could have waited for the completed thesis like everyone else.

Dr. █████: We have sufficient resources to considerably further your research, but without your cooperation the project will go nowhere.

SCP-1465: Fine. But only if you ask nicely.

Dr. █████: Very well. Could you please explain the principle of patterns further?

SCP-1465: Yeah. Sure. Okay…so, a massive amount of information we process consists entirely out of patterns of light. Cameras capture light at one particular moment in time, so you get a stable fragment of a constantly shifting pattern. I kinda take that out of the photo, stare at it a bit, and figure out the pattern. With a lot of those down, patterns start appearing in multiple places and links between things start showing up. Like, if you give me separate single photos of an old married couple, they’ll have some similarities in the red-level sub-stratum. Or if you want a really weird one, you know that picture of the Hindenberg? Has almost the exact same blue-level matrix as photos of my cat. Still haven’t figured that one out. Whatever. But the thing is, everything is linked. Everything. Patterns inside patterns inside patterns inside patterns. Like some gigantic puzzle, big enough I don’t have a clue what it even means anymore and I’m nowhere close to solving it.

[Pause]

It’s all very quantum.

Dr. █████: I suppose it is, when you put it that way. However, are you sure that the patterns aren’t simply random?

SCP-1465: It's quantum-encrypted lumelinguistics, doc. That shit don't make sense.

Addendum-02:

Translated segment of SCP-1465's research notes, dated between June 2 and June 4, 2013.

Found a photo of myself, one of the few I have not used. Dated as December 14th, 2006. Clearest patterns I’ve ever seen in a photo of myself, with several sub-strata actually discernible. Notable pattern in the fifth green overlevel, located between the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh matrix markers.

Cross-referenced fifth green overlevel pattern with records. Only match is photograph of the Grand Canyon. Further cross reference reveals no matches between the two photos. No tense to be found in pattern: I have not been to the Grand Canyon, so I must presume that some event of importance will occur at the Grand Canyon at some point in the future, despite lack of future tense markers. Interesting.

I cross-referenced the photo of myself with an aerial photo of the state of Arizona. Pattern still repeats, so I know that the connection is not specifically tied to the Grand Canyon. Will have to tighten the search, to see where there is a greater connection.

Grid search of the state is completed. Strongest pattern of connection is with Phoenix. Further investigation necessary.

Searched news archives for any sort of notable event in the Phoenix area on the date of December 14th, 2006. Only event of note is the murder of one Anthony Baker by his sixteen year-old girlfriend.

Checked a photo of the accused girl. No pattern links in the green spectrum. Photo of victim reveals same green overlevel pattern as state and myself.

If this is correct, I am somehow connected with the murder of someone I have never met, in a state I have never visited. Will have to think about this.

Found satisfying conclusion for the time being. Been thinking forwards and backwards, but not sideways. Current theory: green patterns indicate a transuniversal tense of being. Linking between events that have and have not occurred simultaneously. Actions that I have-will-not-have done.

I am involved and uninvolved at the same time. I can then presume that an alternate chain of events in which I am guilty, or at least accused to be guilty, of murdering Anthony Baker exists. Question: why only this? Should be seeing more links of this nature.

Theory: Active work by otherside self to contact thisside self. Purpose unknown at the time, as is method of counter-communication. Can presume that otherside self in possession of expanded or alternate properties, capable of encoding patterns. Would imply that otherside self is capable of manipulating photographic material without falsifying subject of photo. Furthermore, indicates that certain patterns exist in multiple universal iterations.

Further research necessary. Should buy tickets to Phoenix.

Follow-up segment of notes, dated around June 9th, 2013.

Have not slept in 67 hours. Over ten thousand photographs of Phoenix area and articles related to Anthony Baker’s murder and murderer analyzed in bulk batches. Experiencing temporary blindness due to volume.

Links found with otherside self throughout Phoenix area. No question remains that message was left by otherside self, though signature unconfirmed as voluntary act.

Strong links between the following photographs: emergency exit sign, businessmen in suits, parrot in cage.

Meaning is clear: otherside self requesting assistance and escape. Still no theories on methods on return communication. Questioning whether such action would be wise. Information unfettered by time and space, bodies very much so. Perhaps a possibility, in the future. Questions remain. Motive for escape unknown, life-path variables unknown. Must bear in mind that otherside Iris Laskaris is separate individual from thisside Iris Laskaris.

Will investigate further later.

Will leave Phoenix after recovery.