Photo of SCP-1506-1-3 appearing over ██████

Item #: SCP-1506

Object Class: Keter

Special Containment Procedures: High-resolution satellite imagery is to be processed by computer for possible SCP-1506-1 occurrences. Once confirmed as an occurrence, SCP-1506-1's position is to be monitored and checked against computer modelling of wind patterns. Should SCP-1506-1 rapidly descend or ascend into a wind current predicted to take SCP-1506-1 through human populated areas, MTF Phi-17 (aka "The Arachnophobes") are to be readied for Procedures 1506-A, 1506-B and 1506-C.

Procedure 1506-A: Using mobile anti-smog fans MTF Phi-17 are to attempt to guide SCP-1506-1 into a wind current predicted to take SCP-1506-1 towards a local nature reserve populated with larger mammalia. If necessary to disguise the procedure from the public, cover will be provided as cutting edge industrial agriculture testing in rural areas and as air quality specialists in urban areas.

Procedure 1506-B: Should 1506-A fail to keep SCP-1506-1 away from human population centres, MTF Phi-17 are to begin a type-B amnestic treatment as necessary for witnesses of predation.

Procedure 1506-C: MTF Phi-17 are to use mobile stasis locks to contain the area around SCP-1506-1 while flamethrowers and arachnocide-7 are used to disperse SCP-1506-1. Arachnocide-7's boiling point is above 1500° C making it safe to use with conventional flame throwers. Under no circumstances may arachnocide-7 be used without stasis locks active to contain the aftermath. Arachnocide-7 must not be allowed to enter the biosphere.

Procedure 1506-D: Following incident 1506 Sigma, any instance of SCP-1506-1 larger than 200 cubic metres in commercial flight paths are cleared for immediate barometric implosion using FAE detonation contained via mobile stasis lock.

SCP-1506-1-14 is contained at Site 9 in a pressure controlled Large Animal Containment cell. Atmospheric pressure is to be maintained to keep SCP-1506-1-14 approximately in the centre of the containment cell. When SCP-1506-1-14 descends to an artificial altitude of less than 500m, viable prey animals are to be introduced to the cell. It has been calculated that ███kg of food over a four week period will keep the colony at its current size. In the event of containment breach arachnocide-7 will be deployed in combination with increasing containment cell pressure to ██ atmospheres. Arachnocide-7 must not be allowed to enter the biosphere.

+ Access previous procedures

- Hide outdated procedure

SCP-1506's position is to be monitored and checked against computer modelling of wind patterns. Should SCP-1506 rapidly descend or ascend into a wind current predicted to take SCP-1506 through human populated areas, MTF Phi-17 (aka "The Arachnophobes") are to be readied for Procedures 1506-A and 1506-B.

Description: SCP-1506 is the designation for the global phenomenon which spontaneously generates instances of SCP-1506-1.

SCP-1506-1 is the designation for anomalous colonies of at least approximately 900 spiders of mixed species. By application of multiple varieties of spider silk, SCP-1506-1 is able to build a complex web-structure less dense than air in which the spiders may live. SCP-1506-1 exhibits remarkable behaviour, as individual spiders are rarely seen working in co-operation and never in cross-species co-operation. SCP-1506-1 also shows changes in predation behaviour, web tension strength and web adhesion. SCP-1506-1 has been found at altitudes of up to 18 km. In order to change altitude, the volume of SCP-1506-1 is increased or decreased, suggesting the web structure is being consistently maintained.

When SCP-1506-1 descends below 500m, it is to be assumed that the colony will soon begin predation behaviour. Thus far it is unknown how spiders are able to detect their prey at this height. SCP-1506-1's preferred method of predation is to spin a web to the ground from altitude. Any animalia touching the spider web will instantly adhere and be unable to remove the web. Only live animal matter exhibits this effect. When enough food has been caught SCP-1506-1 will reel in the web at ██ km/h. When SCP-1506-1 has fully reeled in its prey, the web structure will engulf the animal. Consumption of prey takes place over days, dependent on both the size of the prey and the colony. Humans take approximately 5 days for an average sized colony to digest. The largest single prey animal recorded has been an elk, taking 11 days to digest. Waste is allowed to fall freely, leaving a desiccated husk that will often shatter on impact.

SCP-1506-1 was first identified as SCP-1506 before the realisation of multiple instances. SCP-1506-1 was first brought to the Foundation's attention on ██/██/20██ when a viral video thought to originate in Chile showed a man walking through the streets of [REDACTED] at 0247 local time according to the time stamps. For 2 minutes he is tracked by 8 security cameras, the footage of which has been seamlessly edited together, until he suddenly stops walking whilst looking very startled. The subject of the video begins brushing at his arms and face before vanishing. High speed analysis shows that he has been dragged vertically out of frame. The poor resolution of security footage has made it impossible to determine the actual speed but ██ km/h is within estimations. The footage has been doctored to remove the 3 frames and has been publically revealed to be part of the viral campaign for █████ energy drink.

SCP-1506-1-14 is a colony captured on ██/██/20██. Cameras placed on prey animals have shown the internal structure to be incredibly complex. The colony is divided into living chambers and buoyancy chambers with no genus of spider noticeably more active in web maintenance. Every foreign spider introduced to the colony has been accepted without incident. Introducing new spider species to SCP-1506-1-14 is now banned; 200 different spiders from around the world have been introduced to the colony and it is believed there is no more data to be gained from this research. SCP-1506-1-14 is being studied to determine longevity of the colony. So far the colony remains healthy in a simulated high altitude environment, feeding when necessary.

Using remote cameras to explore the structure has proven a failure as all attempts have had the drone immobilised by web and excreted in the usual manner. Spider-mounted cameras have failed in a similar manner. The only successful method to obtain internal visuals is through prey mounted camera which allows only for stationary video feeds. Tests indicate a normal oxygen level and atmospheric pressure within living chambers.

Little headway has been made as to the mode of transmission of SCP-1506, but the most favoured theory is communication of learned behaviour. Investigation is ongoing into how the spiders communicate. Research on Mallos gregalis and other social spiders has been promising but so far no headway has been made. So far SCP-1506-1 has appeared on all continents except Antartica and shows no preference for member spider species, either solitary or social.

Addendum:

Event 1501 Alpha:

The following is a transcription from recovery agent in field audio on ██/██/20██

Agent R.: I think it's trying to pretend it's a weather balloon, but weather balloons don't float this low. Great, we found the killer low flying weather balloon. I guess we could pop it?

Agent F.: They're called special containment procedures…

Both agents: Not special destruction procedures.

Agent R.: It would save time though… I'm going in for a closer look.

Agent F.: Stay sharp.

3:42 minutes of radio silence as Agent R. approaches location

Agent R.: I've got visual on the binoculars. I can see it pulsing, it looks like it's made of fabric?

Agent F.: What do you think, giant butterfly net? Lasso?

Agent R.: I don't think we're bringing this one in ourselves. We're going to need nerds. Urgh.

Agent F.: Hey don't be like that, they're why we have jobs.

Agent R.: Not them. I stepped in a spiderwe…

Agent R.'s radio device transmits a 16 second scream, followed by heavy breathing and sobbing

Agent R.: [unintelligible]… oh god they're crawling on me, I can't move…[unintelligible]…. it's so hot oh god…. [unintelligible]

Agent R. was in radio contact for a further 18 hours and 7 minutes. During this time Agent R. was unable to provide more useful information on the nature of SCP-1506

Event 1506 Sigma: On ██/██/20██, SCP-1506-1-9 collided with commercial flight [REDACTED]. SCP-1506-1-9 had been under special observation due to its significant volume. It has been theorised that SCP-1506-1-9 contained over █ million individual spiders. On impact with flight [REDACTED] SCP-1506-1-9 was observed to burst. The web structure was observed to cling for to the plane for 40 seconds before being pulled into a damaged seam between fuselage panels. The black box flight recorder indicates the spiders entered the flight cabin causing significant damage to the aircraft's electronics, including radio equipment. The flight continued for another 78 minutes before crashing. The following is an excerpt from the recording:

Pilot: What the fuck was that?!?

Co-Pilot: Shit, I don't know. Give me the fucking mic. This is B█████ your co-pilot for today, we do apologise for the turbulence back there. We do our best to make your flight as smooth as possible but the occasional hiccup will happen. We thank you for your understanding and remember to keep flying with ███████ Airlines. Okay J███, what in the fuck happened?

Pilot: I thought it was a cloud, alright?!

Co-Pilot: Clouds don't fucking make a bang when you hit them! I'm meant to be on break, seriously J███, what is wrong with you?

Pilot: Don't tell me you thought it was anything other than cloud cover! You were looking!

Co-Pilot I was meant to take a nap in half an hour and now my heart's racing. Thanks for that.

Pilot: Well piss off then!

Metallic banging can be heard, assumed to be flight attendant L███ at the cockpit door.

Co-Pilot: I just want a nap! Jesus, what did I do? What is it L███? Use the phone!

Banging continues.

Pilot: I'll have a look. OHFUCKOHFUCKOHFUCK!!

Co-Pilot: What?

Pilot: Mayday mayday mayday! This is flight [REDACTED] in immediate distress. Require urgent assistance on spider infestation. Over.

Co-Pilot: What the fuck? Can they get through the door? This is insane!

Pilot: This is flight [REDACTED], our flight cabin has been compromised by spiders and they're fucking everywhere, somebody fucking come in over. Pan-Pan! Mayday! Anyone!

Transcription skips 60 minutes. For full audio file, see: 1506-1-9-BB.mp3

Pilot: Ailerons, okay. Rudder, okay. Elevators, okay.

Co-pilot: Radio, fucked. Well at least we're not deadstick.

30 seconds of silence.

Pilot: We agreed this is what we have to do.

Co-Pilot: I don't want to die J███.

Pilot: Neither do I B██████. Neither did L███.

Co-Pliot: If we're doing this it has to be now. We're getting too close to ███ █████.

Pilot: I hope it's fast.

Co-pilot: We'll be the first to hit, the plane is behind us. It's a rock and a hard place. You sure it'll burn?

Pilot: I've set all the fuel safety options off. I hope so.

Co-Pilot: Sand for miles. Do it.

Recording continues in silence for 4 minutes until impact

Flight [REDACTED] was over an uninhabited area for the crash, preventing further casualties. It is believed that the resulting explosion and dispersal of the spiders that made up SCP-1506-1-9 is responsible for the increased generation rate of SCP-1506-1.