Four instances of SCP-1563 that have wrapped themselves around wooden posts.

Item #: SCP-1563

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: Specimens of SCP-1563 are contained in a sealed vivarium at Bio-Containment Site 84 built to emulate a temperate forest environment, and ten Odocoileus virginianus (White Tailed Deer) are to be released into the cell on a weekly basis. Any further specimens of SCP-1563 found in the wild are to be terminated. (See Addendum-1)

+ Containment Addendum as of 12/12/██

- Containment Addendum as of 12/12/██

In light of Addendum-1563-2, any new specimens are to be handled with extreme caution, and will be stored in a sealed vivarium at Bio-Containment Site 84. This vivarium is separate from the original vivarium used to store the pink specimen of SCP-1563.

Any civilians involved with the capture of a new SCP-1563 specimen are to be given Class-C amnestics.

Description: SCP-1563 is a predatory organism resembling plastic property markers commonly used in rural areas. Specimens of SCP-1563 usually exhibit pink coloration (with orange and blue coloration being recently discovered), though coloration of all types is hypothesized to be possible. SCP-1563 has very durable and sharp tooth-like structures measuring 1.5 mm covering the ventral side of its body. These teeth are used to puncture the neck of its prey.

SCP-1563 exhibits behavior of ambush predators, attaching itself to trees or other standing wooden structures. When a prey animal passes by, SCP-1563 will detach and leap onto its target, then wrap around its prey's neck and strangle it to death before puncturing its neck using sharp teeth and feeding on its blood. SCP-1563's preferred prey appears to be Odocoileus virginianus (White-Tailed Deer) and as such poses minimal threat to humans unless provoked or malnourished. SCP-1563 is able to survive for up to two weeks without food.

SCP-1563 has two organs; a small capillary system which is presumably used to process and distribute the consumed blood throughout the body, and the teeth, which are attached to the capillary system and used to absorb blood as well as kill prey. SCP-1563's mean of locomotion is unknown, as no muscle tissues have been discovered. SCP-1563 has an extremely durable cell structure composed of what appears to be a 'double'-cell wall1, with the second cell wall forming a tight bond with adjacent cells. SCP-1563 reproduces asexually. The specimen will split itself in two, and hunt smaller prey such as rabbits until it grows to a sufficient size. At that point, it will resume hunting White-Tailed Deer.

SCP-1563 will occasionally secrete a yellowish-brown substance, presumably waste. The excretions halt approximately 1-2 hours after they begin.

It should be noted that on touch, there is no discernible difference between SCP-1563 and a plastic property marker.

SCP-1563 came to the Foundation's attention following multiple reports of deer strangled using property markers in ████████ ██████, Virginia. Undercover Foundation agents investigating the incidents were able to identify the anomalous entity responsible, and a containment team was able to secure several specimens and transport them to Temporary-Storage Site ██.

+ Test Logs 1-2 

- Test Logs 1-2

Test Log 1563-1:

During one instance of testing to discover if the species Euarctos americanus (American Black Bear) would suffice as food for SCP-1563, the following events occurred. Upon introducing the bear to the testing environment, the bear became enraged and began to attack D-4213, who was the personnel introducing the bear to the environment. 12 instances of SCP-1563 leaped onto the bear and began collaboratively feeding off of it, with two instances having wrapped around the neck, two around the right front leg, three around the left front leg, three around the right back leg, and two around the left back leg. The bear entered hypovolemia, and died 5 minutes after initial attachment. It is a possibility that the instances of SCP-1563 were protecting D-4213. It is also a possibility, however, that they were trying to collaboratively feed upon an animal larger than their normal diet, as one could not do this on its own. Further testing required.

Test Log 1563-2:

Test 1563-2 is to confirm whether or not SCP-1563 is protective over humans. Two Dogwood trees were placed into the testing environment. D-02231 entered the testing environment, as well as six SCP-1563 specimens. Five minutes later, a Bengal Tiger was introduced to the testing environment. Prior to testing, the Tiger was agitated using copious amounts of water. Once the tiger was introduced to the testing environment, it immediately proceeded get into a stalking posture. At this time, the SCP-1563 specimens were attached to the Dogwood trees. The SCP-1563 specimens then began to detach themselves from the trees. The tiger pounced onto D-02231, causing a massive laceration in his left arm. The SCP-1563 specimens then dove off of the trees and began to attack and feed on the tiger. The tiger then died approximately four minutes later due to hypovolemia, similar to the bear in Incident 1563-1. Test complete.

+ Addenda 1-2 

- Addenda 1-2

Addendum-1563-1:

During a lab test to further study SCP-1563's anatomy, Researcher █████ noticed microscopic text on the dorsal side of an SCP-1563 specimen's body which displayed the words "pink : protect". Testing is underway to view both the dorsal and ventral sides of each SCP-1563 specimen currently contained. This text implies that there are SCP-1563 specimens that exhibit a different color. A retrieval mission is underway to obtain new colors of SCP-1563.

Addendum-1563-2

A group of seven SCP-1563 specimens with orange coloration were recovered near Area-██ , Nevada . Each displayed text on the ventral side of the body saying "orange: restrict". Upon further examination, all specimen were actively hostile toward personnel. This resulted in severe injuries to Researcher █████. It is currently unknown why these specimens were discovered in such close proximity to a high priority Foundation base.

Following the discovery of orange colored SCP-1563 specimens, a group of four blue specimens were recovered near █████ ██████, California, an area known to be particularly dry. Text was discovered on the dorsal side displaying "blue : drench". During examination, no extraordinary features were discovered aside from the color and text. Four days after examination of the specimen, a small fire occurred due to SCP-████’s effects. Approximately 5.4 seconds later, the area containing the fire was instantly extinguished, and an extra three liters of water was found on the floor of the area. It is now assumed that specimens of blue coloration serve the purpose of preventing fires or to assist in situations with a high lack of moisture. Further testing is planned.

It should be noted that both of these specimens have the same anatomy of the pink specimen, aside from the color and the effects accompanied by them.

Retrieval mission still underway to recover different colorations of SCP-1563

Note from Researcher Hubei: So far, it appears that specimens’ effects seem to correlate with their coloration. Correlation, however, is not always the same as causation.

Footnotes

1. The 'double-cell wall' is literally two cell walls beside each other. It is unknown why SCP-1563's cells contain cell walls, as it does not appear to be a plant or fungus. It is theorized that this double cell wall is used to help SCP-1563 stay together when attacking prey, so that they are not easily torn.