Item #: SCP-1589

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1589 is to be contained within a 15x15x7 meter reinforced specimen containment chamber. The chamber is to be connected to an airborne tranquilizer dispersal system, to be activated in the event of violence. A list of basic command words is to be posted outside the containment chamber, within the observation room, and in the main security office.

SCP-1589 is to be supplied with 90 kilograms of meat every other day during testing periods. All refuse is to be removed by a squad of D-class personnel when SCP-1589 has reverted to an inactive state.

All physical interaction with SCP-1589 is to be carried out during its inactive state only.

Description: SCP-1589 is a semi-bipedal creature standing 5 meters (16.4 feet) tall and weighing approximately 7300 kilograms (16000 pounds). SCP-1589 is roughly humanoid, with a misshapen abdomen and large, muscular arms. The subject’s skin is thick and hairless, and is accompanied by a layer of protective fat. Heavy scarring is present on the arms and lower abdomen, as well as thirty-nine arrowheads or weapon fragments embedded in the skin across the subject’s body. SCP-1589 may engage in bipedal locomotion for short periods of time, but prefers a knuckle-walking gait.

SCP-1589 does not have a head: the subject’s eyes, ear canals, nostrils and mouth are all located on the torso and abdomen. It should be noted that no nose or pinnae are present on the face. Sensory awareness testing shows that SCP-1589 has poor eyesight, and operates primarily by smell and hearing. The subject is incapable of reproducing human speech, but demonstrates a level of intelligence similar to that of an ape, and is capable of creating and using simple tools. SCP-1589 is capable of understanding basic commands in Latin: Training to understand English commands has been proposed and is currently awaiting approval.

SCP-1589 will consume any human corpse in its presence automatically, removing any clothing or items still on the person of the deceased. Other animals will be consumed only on command. SCP-1589 will not consume living flesh, and has not attempted to kill animals for food. SCP-1589 will occasionally consume rocks, a behavior that becomes more common when no meat is available.

Six to eight hours after consumption, SCP-1589 will expel various substances from various orifices in the lower abdomen, including:

An edible paste. Analysis confirms it as reconstituted flesh of creatures previously consumed.

Water with a notably high mineral content.

Pellets of various inorganic materials, the most common being iron and salt.

Strips or sheets of leather.

Gravel.

Concrete slurry, after SCP-1589 was fed the appropriate mixture of gypsum, lime, and a suitable aggregate.

SCP-1589 will enter a state of dormancy if not fed for over five days. During this state SCP-1589 will not respond to any stimuli. SCP-1589 will exit this state in the presence of a dead body, or if given the command to wake up. If SCP-1589 is woken without being fed, it will resume its dormant state after six hours of activity.

Numerous brands, tattoos, and scars are present on SCP-1589’s body, all of which are written in Latin. Notable instances are as follows:

Opus Officinae Magni Persapientis (Work of the Factory of Magnus the Very Wise) - Located on the right shoulder blade.

IV (Four) - Located on the left shoulder blade

Legio II Traiana Fortis (Second Valiant Trajanic Legion) – Located on the right calf.

Noscendus est Lucius hac nocte multas pulchras feminas futuit. (Let it be known: Lucius fucked many beautiful women this night) – Located on the left abdominal side.

Ecce Elephantus cibicida merdae vir viri. (Behold! The Elephant, eater of shit, hero of men!) – Located on the chest, above the face.

Ptolemaeus hic erat (Ptolemy was here) – Located on the left foot. The text is accompanied by a stick figure wearing a crown.

Stylized representation of a man wearing a lion skin and wielding a club (Hercules, emblem of the Second Valiant Trajanic) - Located on the back.

Other symbols and text are present, but have been rendered unidentifiable by damage and age.

Addendum-01: SCP-1589 was discovered in 1993 by an archaeological expedition in [REDACTED], Egypt. A Foundation recovery team assumed command of the expedition and appropriate counter-intelligence measures were taken without incident. SCP-1589 was recovered in an inactive state and presumed dead. During transport, the recovery team was attacked by members of an unknown group. SCP-1589 entered its active state during the attack, and subsequently began to feed on the deceased. When fired upon by the assailants, SCP-1589 reacted violently, killing five combatants and wounding three more. It is not believed that the attacking group had any interest in securing SCP-1589.