SCP-1730 pictured during transport to Sector-19.

Item #: SCP-1730

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1730 is currently contained in a 20m x 20m reinforced concrete cell located at Sector-19. The only entrances to this cell are a negative-pressure airlock located on the northern wall and a similarly designed hatch on the ceiling of the cell. 6 closed-circuit security cameras housed in 3cm thick polycarbonate boxes are to be observing the subject at all times. Once every 24 hours, 250 kg of food product is to be introduced into the cell via the ceiling hatch, and water is to be provided through troughs located along the east and west walls. The cell is to be cleaned once weekly by site personnel. Personnel entering the cell for any reason are to wear cut-resistant positive pressure environment suits. After exiting the cell, the airlock will be flooded with the non-persistent nerve agent cyclosarin.

SCP-1730 is to be considered hostile at all times. Any changes in behavior noticed in the subject are to be documented and reported to site command. Appearances of docile and/or cooperative behavior are to be considered a luring tactic and treated as such. Should any members of SCP-1730 be sighted outside the containment cell, a full lock down will be enacted, with the all-clear given only after they are terminated or captured. Any members of species Rattus norvegicus sighted within 10km of Sector-19 are to be considered members of SCP-1730 and dealt with accordingly. Any containment breach involving a large portion of SCP-1730 escaping containment is to be dealt with by using one or more class-D personnel to lure them back into the cell. If this method fails, personnel on site are to coerce the subject using incendiary devices, poison gasses, or any other method capable of killing or injuring its members in large numbers.

Description: SCP-1730 is a large colony (currently ~5000 individuals) of species Rattus norvegicus currently residing in a containment cell in Sector-19. Specimens of SCP-1730 have an average length of 50cm from snout to tail, and an average mass of 0.5kg. Fur is typically coarse and ranges in color from brown to dark grey. SCP-1730 possesses a collective intelligence, acting as a single entity at all times. The mechanism behind this phenomenon is unknown. While it is theorized that the intelligence of this collective mind is proportional to the number of individuals, there is no definitive proof at this time.

SCP-1730 displays a high degree of coordination and problem solving ability, and has been observed attacking potential prey items in large numbers, incapacitating them before delivering lethal wounds. Members of SCP-1730 do not appear to react to pain, and will continue attacking until death or any injury that would render movement mechanically impossible, at which point other members will cannibalize them. The only actions that appear to deter it are those that would threaten the colony as a whole. Subject shows a notable preference for humans as a source of food, to the point of focusing its efforts on any potential human prey regardless of the risk involved or the availability of other food sources. SCP-1730 will typically subdue human prey by first biting through the calcaneal (Achilles) tendon, then lacerating major blood vessels, usually in the wrists and neck. When the victim dies from blood loss, members of SCP-1730 will gather around the body, allowing the young and those of breeding age to feed before any other members.

SCP-1730 appears to have a limited understanding of human technology. It will attempt to disable electronic devices by chewing through wires and mechanical devices by jamming moving parts with their bodies. All attempts at communication with SCP-1730 have been unsuccessful. It is unknown at this time whether it is incapable of understanding these attempts or simply unwilling to respond.

Incident 1730-1: During the weekly cleaning of SCP-1730's containment cell on 5/██/20██, a power failure caused a design oversight in the airlock1 to open both doors, allowing SCP-1730 to escape. As per containment procedures, subject D-████ was restrained and introduced to the cell via manually opening the ceiling hatch. This was sufficient to lure the entirety of SCP-1730 into its cell. The cause of the power failure was determined to be a member of SCP-1730 chewing through the containment cell's main power cable. Review of the security footage revealed that no member of SCP-1730 had escaped prior to this incident. The current theory behind this is that other members of species Rattus norvegicus coming within a certain area of effect of SCP-1730 will become part of its collective intelligence. Also of note is that SCP-1730 took much longer to kill and consume D-████ than it normally would have, appearing to draw out the subject's death for several hours. The reason for this behavior is unknown.

Addendum 1730-1: The Foundation has received several reports of unusual behavior and migration patterns of Rattus norvegicus in the area of [REDACTED]. Because this area was along the route used to transport SCP-1730 to Sector-19, it seems likely that these specimens have fallen victim to the same conversion effect noted in Incident 1730-1. Sector-19 command has declared a state of heightened alert in light of these events. At this time, it is estimated that no less than ████ specimens could be affected. Formation of a mobile task force to handle this issue is pending, as is a change in object class for SCP-1730.

Footnotes

1. This oversight was later determined to be the disengagement of the mechanical locking mechanism of both doors while only one was open. This left only the electromagnetic lock keeping the outer door closed, which disengaged when the power failure occurred.