Item #: SCP-1831

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-1831 has been purchased and established as a legitimate business front. All equipment within SCP-1831 has been moved to Site-19 for further study, and is to be kept within a storage locker. Access to SCP-1831 and the materials contained in SCP-1831 is open to all researchers. All SCP-1831 subjects have been re-released into society; all requests for interviews are to be submitted to the Reintegration Supervisor.

Description: SCP-1831 is a building located in the greater Los Angeles area. SCP-1831-A is the blanket designation referring to the objects in SCP-1831.

SCP-1831 is a grey-blue building in the art deco style constructed in 1926 in the greater Los Angeles area. Prior to its removal, it bore a large sign referring to it as "Flyboy Cryonics." Local records list the company has having been formed at the same time as the building, and that the building was established for the sole use of "Flyboy Cryonics."

Inside the building are nine occupied cryonic vats, although documentation found at the site indicates the existence of several more occupants who had either died in storage or had been thawed out and released.

Eight of the nine subjects are former actors who were either missing or presumed dead. The ninth subject is a golden retriever, whose reason for inclusion is not known at this time, as the subject does not match any known canine actors working in the movie industry.

All eight actors were suffering from illnesses at the time of recovery: four instances of breast cancer, one of Parkinson's, two of pneumonia, and one of skin cancer. All were treated by medical staff and experienced a full recovery.

The technology used to preserve the subjects consists of several parts:

Thirty cryonic vats

A complete cooling system ran with a heavily modified Einstein-Szilard refrigerator used to create and maintain liquid helium.

A highly efficient internal combustion engine stamped as being made by "Flyboy Engines & Co." used to power the liquid helium distribution system. The engine was supplied via gasoline in a large tank behind the building that had been continuously supplied with gasoline due to a long-term agreement with a local store since 1957.

A full operating room and supply area stocked with cryoprotectants on par with, but not identical to, modern cryoprotectants (for more information on the analysis of the cryoprotectants found, visit Document-1831-16 [Cryoprotectant Analysis and Potential Uses.])

A punch-card system capable of automatically running the entire facility

Both the motor, the cooling system, and the inside of the cryonic vats are covered in various symbols written in blood (chicken, pig, goat, cow, and human.) These symbols appear to be equations dealing with entropy and rates of heat transfer over time to an unknown source (for more information, see Document 1831-17 [Analysis of Symbols Found.])

Interviews with SCP-1831 subjects have been generally uninformative; although cooperative, they were not privy to any information with regard to Flyboy Incorporated See Addendum 1831-03 for more information.

+ Addendum 1831-01-Interview with Subject 1831-01

- Close.

Interviewer: Could you please state your name?

Subject 1831-01: Melinda Chapman.

Interviewer: And your primary occupation?

Chapman: I'm a Hollywood actress. I've starred in all the big pictures. Dinner with the Rajah. Summer of the Spooks. A Heartthrob's Passion. Death with Dessert.

Interviewer: And how did you come to be at Flyboy Cryonics?

Chapman: It was the doctors. I was a popular girl, you know, and I attended the biggest parties. But then the doctors told me that I had some sort of cancer. In my breasts! They didn't have a cure, they said; I would just end up dead. So, when I got the chance to be saved…I took it.

Interviewer: Who offered you the chance to do this?

Chapman: Well, I was at a party…at Marcus's [Subject 1831-03], I believe, and I was dropping some hints about how I was sick, and after that, this man came up to me and asked if I'd like to be cured. Well, I said of course, and then he told me about this thing he'd invented that would let me take a long nap in a glacier or somesuch thing-I didn't really pay attention, but he said they'd wake me up when they found a cure. I was curious, but I didn't want to lose my acting career, y'know; I had it good now, and I didn't want to wake up only to find that everyone had moved on. But he said something, somethin' that made me agree to it.

Interviewer: And that was?

Chapman: He said, "Well, your career will be a whole lot worse if you can't act at all, now won't it?" After that, I agreed. There were just a few checkups that they did, just to make sure I was all right for it, y'know, then the last thing I remember was laying down on an operatin' table and then it was just like a nice long nap before you people woke me up.

Interviewer: Thank you, Miss Chapman, you've been a big help to us. Just one more question for you: do you remember anything about the man at the party, or about the place you slept in?

Chapman: Not much. The man looked really tired, I remember, because I asked him a few times if he didn't want to take a rest as well? But he said no, he had to stay and manage the business. I do remember his name though: David Grahm. He gave me his business card and everything.

Interviewer: Would you happen to have this card on you?

Chapman: No, sorry. I threw it away before going in.

Interviewer: Thank you again. This interview is now concluded.

+ Addendum 1831-03-Interview with Subject 1831-03

- Close.

Interviewer: Could you please state your name?

Subject 1831-03: Gordon Marcus.

Interviewer: And what was your occupation?

Subject 1831-03: Actor.

Interviewer: And how did you come to be at Flyboy Cryonics?

Subject 1831-03: After I was diagnosed with cancer, I got pretty desperate. I was going around to any two-bit quack doctor who promised a cure. I tried everything-Radithor, electrical treatments, patent medicines, everything. I began to get in contact with some strange people-occultists, excommunicated priests, Devil worshipers, atheists, the whole nine yards. That's how I got in touch with David Grahm.

Interviewer: Go on.

Subject 1831-03: He was working on a way to keep people alive until whatever was wrong with them could be fixed. It worked pretty well, I think [chuckles]. He was trying to get his vats as cold as he could get, but he kept getting frustrated by the technology we had back then. That's why he talked to me. He thought there was something occult that could help him out.

Interviewer: So why did he go to you?

Subject 1831-03: Well, first, I had been extensively researching it trying to figure out a potential cure. And secondly, I had been in training to be a Catholic priest before deciding it wasn't for me and going into acting.

Interviewer: So did you solve the problem?

Subject 1831-03: Well…yes, in a way. It was really Grahm's backer who laid the groundwork for it. I never met him personally, but I was given some of his drawings and notes to work with. They were, to put it simply, brilliant. What he was doing with the occult was on par, if not better, than most of the experts.

Interviewer: How did it work?

Subject 1831-03: Well, on a basic level, it involved creating a conduit from this world to another place. Hell, another reincarnation cycle…whatever you want to call it; it basically functions as a large energy sink. The concept is simple; though the execution is not. I'm still not sure how he managed to lay the groundwork, to be honest. It must have taken months, years of work to gain the necessary connections, information, and materials.

Interviewer: But you executed it?

Subject 1831-03: Yes. He had all the concepts; all I did was fix a few problems with the design and execute it properly. And it worked. We tested a golden retriever first, freezing and thawing it a few times to make sure it functioned. Then we tested it on a few of my actor friends. They were all terminally ill; this was their last chance. They were the best guinea pigs we had. Then, finally, it was time for me. And, as you can see, here I am.

Interviewer: Thank you, sir. One last question: can you recall the name of the benefactor?

Subject 1831-03: I never knew it in the first place. We never met in person, and all his notes and letters either were unsigned, or signed in an illegible scrawl. Sorry I can't be of more help.

Interviewer: You've been a big help as it is. Thank you again, this interview is now concluded.

Addendum 1831-09: As of 10/20/14, all human SCP-1831 subjects have been amnesiaced and reintegrated into society. Reintegration occurred according to standard protocol. All requests as to the current situation of any SCP-1831 subjects are to be submitted to the Reintegration Supervisor as per normal procedure. After extensive testing and review, canine subject SCP-1831-09 was deemed safe and as of 10/30/14 has been able to stay in Site-19.

Addendum 1831-10: A preliminary investigation into Flyboy Incorporated as of 11/5/14 has turned up no connections to Flyboy Cryonics, past or present. An in-depth investigation is currently ongoing.

Addendum 1831-11: The investigation into Flyboy Incorporated has turned up several private memos sent by the CEO of Flyboy Incorporated in the 1920s to a David Grahm, granting him permission to set up a branch of Flyboy Incorporated "…dedicated to the preservation of life until such a time as all functions can be restored." Mr. Grahm was then told to utilize terminally ill patients as test subjects before a mass-production of cryonics capsules began. Investigation into this is proceeding.

Addendum 1831-12: The investigation turned up the collected notes and patents of Mr. Grahm in the archives of Flyboy Incorporated. According to the notes, Grahm, despite his solution to the problem of preservation injury, was having difficulties keeping and maintaining both life and temperatures cold enough to allow for complete preservation. The notes, however, indicate that a "Mister B" was working on that problem, and promised a solution. The only further notes on this subject are "B solved the problem!" and "Note: Secure a supply of chicken blood, fast!"

Addendum 1831-13: The investigation into Flyboy Incorporated has uncovered evidence of numerous anomalies, most notably in their automotive and aerial divisions, but also in their corporate, manufacturing, and research divisions, as well as a previously unknown anomalous group. Following the discoveries of SCPs 1798 and █████, as well as a large number of cryonic chambers in the company's headquarters, the reclassification of Flyboy Incorporated to a known Group of Interest is pending.

Addendum 1831-14: Further investigation into Flyboy Incorporated has revealed a large hangar facility located a quarter of a mile from the company's main headquarters; filled with cryonic vats storing instances of CEO William E. Boeing at different ages and at different stages of health. As William E. Boeing is alive and currently the active CEO of Flyboy Incorporated, the origin of these instances is currently unknown.

Addendum 1831-15: Following the death of Boeing on 1/3/15, the instances of preserved Boeings has increased by three percent per day. In addition, symbols identical to the ones found in SCP-1831 have appeared around the entirety of the building; with no apparent creator found as of this time. Investigation of this issue is continuing at this time.