SCP-2095 after excavation in 08/07/1948.

Item #: SCP-2095

Object Class: Safe

Special Containment Procedures: Reliquary Site-26 was constructed around SCP-2095, preventing access and enclosing it from view. Site-26 has been disguised as a weather observatory and agents within the Greek government are to ensure that the site is publicly viewed as such.

Description: SCP-2095 is a primarily subterranean temple complex1 located at Gyaros, an arid and uninhabited Greek island in the Aegean Sea. Structure predates previously known archaeological sites on the island. Inscriptions found within have included Cretan hieroglyphs, Linear A, Hittite Cuneiform, and a previously unknown writing system composed of spiral-shaped glyphs varying in complexity.2

SCP-2095 is composed of entirely biological material and is believed to have once been a living organism. Samples taking from SCP-2095 have revealed bone, chitin, muscle, adipose and viscera. Radiocarbon dating has placed the subject's death at cal 1200–1000 BCE (1σ) with soft tissue having undergone a form of embalmment.

Chambers are connected together via tunnels which are structurally and cellularly similar to the inner lining of the human intestinal tract. Large sphincters appear to have served as doors and are permanently relaxed. These portals would have likely been able to open and close as needed pre-mortem.

The largest room contains an altar composed of bone, a component of the SCP-2095 organism. Forensic evidence suggest that it was used in a sacrificial manner. It is believed possible that living sacrifices provided SCP-2095 with the nutrients necessary for its survival and the floor itself shows signs of acidic corrosion. The base of the altar has been carved into an Ouroboros, believed to be a symbol of religious importance to the creators of SCP-2095.

Twenty-nine scrolls were discovered within the northern most chamber of SCP-2095. Only four were found to be written in Hittite Cuneiform while the rest remain undecipherable. Of those four, three are considered to be of a spiritual/philosophical nature while one appears to be an inventory report.

Foundation archaeologists have found evidence of warfare throughout the island. This has included skeletal remains depicting likely anomalous causes for death such as implosion, internal combustion, disintegration, radiation poisoning, and fatal physical reconfiguration.

The Foundation became aware SCP-2095 after reports of a "cathedral of bone" being discovered by a team of Greek archaeologists who had been studying a large mound on the isle of Gyaros. Class-B Amnestics were administered and the archaeologists were returned to the general population. SCP-2095 was easily secured and construction of Reliquary Site-26 was completed by 12/09/1949.

+ INVENTORY

- ACCESS GRANTED

Resources:

[illegible]

1340 slaves - 10 surrendered at the Shrine of Consumption when the Black Moon holds dominion over the Heavens

12 biltu of gold, pure3

1200 goats

300 pigs

[fragment missing]

Our Sacred Legion:

1000 Wilusa4

400 Sardinians

250 Kaskians

100 Caphtor conspirators - can their loyalty be trusted when they so easily betrayed their own?5

2000 Mycenaeans

Armory:

2550 bone-crafted blades and shields

2000 bone-crafted bows

10,000 bone-crafted arrows, poisoned with hellebore and venom of adder

60 amphora of [illegible]

200 amphora of "liquid fire"

20 "curse tablets" - placed around perimeter of island

1 amphora of "Red Death"

+ SCROLL I

- ACCESS GRANTED

I have completed the descent of the fifteen steps and the ascent of the steps of [illegible]. And it is the sacrificing priest who renews me, casting off the body's coarseness, and, consecrated by necessity, I have become a spirit.

I counsel all those in mortification to become calm and that each take in his hand [illegible] and write with his own hand and that each bear his eyes upward and open his mouth until his grapes be grown.

This man of [illegible] whom you have seen is the sacrificial priest and the sacrifice and he who vomited out his own flesh. To him was given authority over the water and over those men in mortification.

+ SCROLL II

- ACCESS GRANTED

[heavily stained; paragraph illegible]

And even as he said these things to me and I forced him to speak, it was as if his eyes turned to blood and he vomited up all his flesh. And I saw him as a mutilated image of a little man and he was tearing at his flesh and falling away.

And being afraid I woke and considered, "Is this not the composition of the waters?" I thought that I was right and fell asleep again. And I saw the same altar in the shape of a bowl and water bubbled at the top of it, and in it were many people endlessly. And there was no one whom I might question outside of the bowl. And I went up to the altar to view the spectacle.

[heavily stained; paragraph illegible]

And I saw in my sleep a certain priest, wearing a black robe and royal garments, and he stood outside of the place of the mortifications and said, "What is it you seek?"

I said to him, "I stand here because I have missed every road and am lost."

He said, "Follow me".

And going out, I followed him. And being near to the place of the mortifications, I saw the priest leading me and he cast into the place of the mortifications and his whole body was consumed by fire.

Seeing this, I fled and trembled from the fear and I woke and said to myself, "What is this that I have seen?" And again I took thought and determined that this priest is the man of Divine Flesh. It is necessary for the first step to throw him into the place of the mortifications. My soul again desired to ascend — the third step also. And again, alone, I went along the way, and as I drew near the place of the mortifications, again I got lost, losing sight of the path, and stood, out of my mind.

+ SCROLL III

- ACCESS GRANTED

I am Ion, Grand Karcist of Adytum, and I have borne an intolerable force. For someone came at me headlong in the morning and dismembered me with a sword and tore me apart, according to the rigor of harmony. And, having cut my head off with the sword, he mashed my flesh with my bones and burned them in the fire of the treatment, until, my body transformed, I should learn to become a spirit. And I sustained the same intolerable force.

Addendum: On 05/24/2014, an earthquake occurred in the Aegean Sea. Reliquary Site-26 was unharmed, as were the anomalous objects retained within since its construction. SCP-2095 did however suffer some structural damage but proved to be a serendipitous event. A hitherto unknown sphincter, sealed and hidden through calcification, had ruptured open within the altar chamber.

Exploration of the chamber led to the discovery of the body of a human male. Individual has shown no signs of decay and although lacking a detectable heartbeat, EEG scans have revealed low-level brain activity. Research into the subject and its relationship with SCP-2095 is currently ongoing.

Found inside was a single well-preserved scroll, strewn carelessly and likely never meant to be contained within. Deduced to be a letter, it is believed to have been written by the ruling authority at SCP-2095 but had been unsent, possibly due to events directly referenced within. The document has been translated and is now accessible for viewing by Foundation personnel:

+ UNSENT LETTER

- ACCESS GRANTED

Grand Karcist Ion,

May this missive find you at Kythera, for it shall be my last. Our enemies have begun their assault on the island but we have completed the Rite of Preservation. The Temple will sleep and await Resurrection by the Children of Adytum.

The Fallen Kingdoms and Followers of Mekhane have united against us, even as their nations crumble. Still, they have transmuted our every victory in the region to that of defeat, even as their own fates are sealed.

The Bleeding Heart is our last stronghold in the Aegean Sea but no doubt our Eastern Domain remains strong under your eternal gaze. The Wounds sustained today will heal - into the ages of ages, we are undying.

Their victory here shall be hollow. Karcist Anshargal has claimed their Profane Instruments and sails for Kythera as I write this.

I vow that none are to leave this island alive. May their names be obliterated and their flesh consumed.

We summon the Red Death.

For the blood of heathens, we sacrifice ourselves. We will meet again in Adytum.

I remain,

Karcist Antromaxos

Seal attached to letter.

Footnotes

1. Part of the outer structure is above ground. The interior of SCP-2095 is entirely subsurface.

2. Of the writing systems used at SCP-2095, only Hittite Cuneiform has been translated.

3. 360 kg.

4. Hittite for Trojan.

5. Likely Minoans; context remains unknown.