Item #: SCP-2136

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-2136 is to be contained at Site-██ in containment cell 2124-1, a 250x250x250 meter room, with an environment like rural WW2 that are a design from World War Two (2). It is to be recorded 24-7 and the tapes should be reviewed every hour. Any change in activity is to be reported to Site Director Doctor ██████ immediately.

No personnel who are direct decedents of members of the Waffen SS or Nazi Party should come within 1-km of SCP-2136. In the event of a containment breach Mobile Task Force ██ "Tank Hunters" should be sent to it's location and distract SCP-2136 on-till it can be airlifted back to Site-██ and kept in containment cell 2124-2 on-till containment cell 2124-1 is repaired.

Description: SCP-2136 is a standard T-34 Sherman Calliope rocket artillery tank with normal green paint and "Nazi-Mörder" (Nazi Killer in german) painted on the barrel and three (3) iron crosses on the side. The tank also has a Waffen SS helmet strapped to the front. It has a frontal armor of 51 mm, fairly low, but nothing can penetrate it.

The 114m rockets and 75 mm M3 L/40 gun can penetrate almost all armor with ease, the only exception being German tanks from WW2. It also has seemingly unlimited ammunition.

SCP-2136 will attempt to destroy/kill any direct decedents of members of the Waffen SS or Nazi Party or objects with an iron cross of swastika on it within 900m.

SCP-2136 will attempt to find a place like rural WW2 france by any means necessary.

Addendum: All attempts to communicate with SCP-2136 have resulted in it asking for Sgt. Smith, if someone poses as Sgt. Smith it will say, nazi spy, you ain't getting any info from us!" If something like "Who is Sgt. Smith" is said, contact will be lost. All attempts to enter SCP-2136 have resulted in the subject trying to enter being shot and killed once the hatch is open and will be closed in the next few seconds. Any cameras within 5 meters will stop recording and break. Requests to disable/destroy SCP-2136 with explosives and/or EMPs have been denied been Site Director Doctor ██████.

SCP-2136 was recovered on 11/26/██ ██ km ████ of █████, France after destroying almost 90% of the █th French Armored Battalion. The following audio log was intercepted by Observation Post-██

Sergent Smith viennent en! Sergent Smith viennent en! du █e bataillon blindé, nous

sommes attaqués!

Ce est le major ████ ████, je ai lu. Qui attaquer?

Major, ce est un Sherman Calliope foutu! Il a détruit 35% de nos forces!

Sergent, vous ne savez que vous pouvez et allez être puni pour un rapport de fausse

attaque, non?

Je ne plaisante pas! Il est déchirure droite à travers nos réservoirs, et on ne peut fissurer

l'armure! Écouter pour vous-même!

(Sounds of rockets, explosions, and gunfire)

Mon Dieu, donnez-moi un rapport de situation!

Okay, 4e plus, nous avons perdu (Large explosion)

Sergent Smith viennent en! Sergent Smith viennent en!

End of log.

Translated version:

Come in! Come in! This is Sergeant Bob Smith of The █th armored battalion, we are under attack!

This is Major ████ ███ ████ ████, I read. Who is attacking?

Major, it's a goddamned Sherman Calliope! It's destroyed 35% of our forces!

Sergeant, you do know that you can and will be punished for a fake attack report, right?

I'm not kidding! It's tearing right through our tanks, and we can't crack the armor! Listen

for yourself!

(Sounds of rockets, explosions, and gunfire)

My god, give me a status report!

Okay, well, we've lost 4th (Large explosion)

Sergeant Smith come in! Sergeant Smith come in!

End of log.

The major and all survivors were taken into Foundation custody and the attack was blamed > on terrorists.

Note: This Sgt. Smith is not the same as the one that SCP-2136 asks for.