A portion of SCP-2183

Item #: SCP-2183

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-2183 is currently contained on-site. The area surrounding SCP-2183 is blocked off to the public under the guise that it is under construction. A minimum of four Security Guards are to be assigned around the perimeter. Testing of SCP-2183 is approved by the Site Director.

In the event that Containment Protocol #2183-21 (pending) is approved, the surrounding amusement park of SCP-2183 will be blocked off to the public. If SCP-2183 materializes track outside of its containment area (approximately 536 meters from the edge of the amusement park), SCP-2183 will be dismantled remotely.

Description: SCP-2183 is an unfinished roller coaster located in ██████████, Idaho. SCP-2183's physical portion features a maximum height of 37.2 m and a maximum speed of 88.5 km/h. SCP-2183 also features a physical track length of 798.8 m, where it abruptly ends. Carts of SCP-2183 that reach the end of the track travel on a set path in midair, presumably simulating the unfinished portion of SCP-2183. At the end of the ride, the carts of SCP-2183 will reach the end of the station and prepare to travel again.

A variation of the presumed track layout for SCP-2183. Note the sharp turns.

On each ride, the carts of SCP-2183 follow a different path after reaching the physical end of the track. Due to this, the actual ride length of SCP-2183 varies, with the shortest length reaching 1,082.9 m, and the longest length reaching 5,462.1 m. During testing, projected heights can reach up to 102.3 m and speeds can go up to 181.8 km/h.

Incident-2183-2: On ██/██/20██, Portions of SCP-2183 began to materialize, with approximately 3 meters of track materializing per day.

Shortly thereafter, two straight track pieces materialized near SCP-2183. Testing indicated that the track pieces exhibited a minor effect on local reality, appearing as blurring around the edges of the pieces. Further testing of portions of SCP-2183 indicated similar results.

Addendum: Approximately 4 months after Incident-2183-2, SCP-2183 had gained an additional 372 meters of track and has reached the edge of its containment area. The majority of new track are straight track pieces with hydraulic boosters. As a result, several Containment Specialists were assigned to dismantle SCP-2183. The personnel working on SCP-2183 were noted to be repelled by an unseen force. Due to this, dismantling of SCP-2183 has proven difficult.

During dismantling of SCP-2183, a Containment Specialist assigned to SCP-2183 was not affected by the anomaly. Testing concluded that the individual did not exhibit anomalous properties. The Containment Specialist, known as ████████ Silverman was noted for experience with Containment Protocols for several construction-based anomalies. Upon acquisition of SCP-2183, Mr. Silverman was assigned to design the containment area. Shortly after approval to interview Mr. Silverman, materialization of SCP-2183's track increased by 32%. Mr. Silverman was noted to be missing after approval to interview. To date, Mr. Silverman has not been found.

Incident-2183-4: Upon reaching ███ m of track, portions of SCP-2183 exhibited noticeable effects on surrounding local reality. Some of these effects include:

-A visual distortion on parts of SCP-2183 appearing as heavy blurring.

-Certain surrounding areas failing to reflect light, resulting in "black spots".

-A green mist/tint surrounding the containment area.

-A particular area near SCP-2183 in the shape of a humanoid figure. The figure appears to resemble an instance of SCP-████-1, in addition to the surrounding area being covered in a green mist/tint.

An investigation as to whether SCP-2183 is related to SCP-████ is currently underway.

Addendum 2183-CS-1: INFORMATION RESTRICTED TO LEVEL 3 PERSONNEL OR ABOVE

+ INPUT CREDENTIALS

- CREDENTIALS ACCEPTED

███████ Silverman, a former Containment Specialist assigned to Site-132.

Full Name: ███████ Arthur Silverman

Security Clearance: Level 2

Location: Site-132

Area(s) of Expertise: Containment of construction-based anomalies, architecture and design, mechanical engineering.

History: Born in 19██, Mr. Silverman received a degree in Mechanical Engineering from ██████ University in 20██, followed by a degree in Architecture in 20██. In 20██, Mr. Silverman was assigned as a Containment Specialist for Site-132. Over the next several years, Mr. Silverman became Lead Architect for Containment of several Safe-Class objects in Site-132. Mr. Silverman also was involved in designing the containment areas for several construction-based anomalies.

In 20██, Mr. Silverman designed the now defunct Containment Procedures for SCP-████. Several weeks after application of the procedures, several instances of SCP-████-1 breached containment, resulting in several causalities and permanent alteration of the local reality levels surrounding SCP-████. Mr. Silverman was briefly exposed to SCP-████'s area of effect during the breach. A Mobile Task Force was assigned to the area, while Mr. Silverman was taken back to the medical wing in Site-132. Initial testing indicated that Mr. Silverman suffered no physical or mental illnesses from the breach.1 After the breach, Mr. Silverman was noted to be distressed, concerning the nature of the breach. He was temporarily laid-off after psychiatric evaluation.

In 20██, Mr. Silverman was assigned to manage the dismantling of SCP-2183. Shortly after approval to interview Mr. Silverman regarding his immunity to the anomaly, he was reported missing from the containment area and from Site-132. Records recovered from Mr. Silverman's office state that he was assigned to containment of SCP-2183 approximately two years prior to discovery. Several recovered records also show presumed track layouts of SCP-2183. Two days after recovery of these records, a curved track piece resembling a portion of SCP-2183 materialized near the D-Class Containment Wing in Site-132.

Included on Mr. Silverman's desk is a note:

I was assigned to contain The Mist. It was simple enough, just a fence on a surrounding perimeter, and a Faraday Cage around the area of effect. Men struggled, sweat on their brows as they rushed to construct the containment area. I, the supervisor, clung tight to a dusty blueprint, hiding my orders behind ranking and a hard hat. No one was concerned as to whether or not The Mist would break through. Instead, the looming threat of deadlines hung over our heads.

When construction was complete, we celebrated. A couple of men snuck in a few beers. We sat back and unwound as the mysterious green tint dazzled brilliantly behind the Faraday Cage. While other men hid behind Plexiglas and testing logs, we carried heavy parts toward a hostile enemy. Even after completion, I was still assigned to the containment area to monitor structural integrity. However, I was glad to see yet another design come into fruition.

The famed breach of 20██ struck me in the heart. Everything broke down: pieces of the fence began to disappear, time was being dilated in certain areas, and light was beginning to disappear from our surroundings. The humanoids within The Mist came out slowly, and one by one. They were pale and green. No eyes, no teeth, no claws. They didn't run or chase. They stood there silently, as reality around them began to fall apart.

One of the humanoids walked up to me. It maintained a safe distance, maybe 20 meters or so. It stood and faced towards me. A chill flowed through me, for a brief moment. Soon afterward, MTF took me away. But the image of The Mist stood with me.

The Mist is a strange thing. It creates and destroys. I was assigned to be the creator; The Mist, a destroyer. With this, I have to play my role. Site-132 counts on it.

Some might question my disappearance. But it is necessary. The Mist might have already made it. But even so, something must be done. Do not fight it. Do not question it. Construction has already begun.

Footnotes

1. Testing indicated that Mr. Silverman exhibited a blurring effect similar to what was found during Incident 2183-2. This effect later diminished after recovery. Refer to Addendum-CS-4 for theories related to Mr. Silverman and the breach of SCP-████