Item #: SCP-2192

Object Class: Euclid/Keter

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-2192 is to be kept in it’s current location: A probable room that most likely exists behind a door designated SCP-2192-1, or as it is referred to by the staff, “The door that has always been there, right?”. At this point in time, no access is allowed through SCP-2192-1, and all personnel are advised to stay away from the hallway leading to SCP-2192-1 if at all possible.

Description: SCP-2192 was discovered when a containment specialist being transferred to a new position, was given directions with a fairly obvious typo. (At this point it is unclear if this typo was a mistake, or some sort of phenomenon orchestrated by SCP-2192; though this theory is, at this point, being disregarded due to it high improbability). After realizing his directions were faulty, [REDACTED] attempted to walk back to his original station. On the way he passed the hallway leading to SCP-2192-1 and stopped to stare down it for a recorded 20 seconds, the first 7 seconds of which he appeared confused, followed by 4 seconds of glancing around, then ended by a short scoff and 9 more seconds of starring down the hallway, until moving along.

Once back at his original station he reported that he had passed a hallway that he, quote. “Forgot existed, if that makes any sense.” Due to the nature of the foundation the supervising personnel attempted to contact the personnel supposedly stationed at the room that most likely exists behind SCP-2192-1. After discovering that their was no way to contact the personnel stationed their, if any exist, the researcher was sent back to the hallway, accompanied by two security officers and three researchers; two of which had volunteered after hearing him describe what he had seen.

After reaching the hallway leading to SCP-2192-1 all personnel, for the exception of [REDACTED] who wore an expression described as a smug grin at the expense of his fellow coworkers, took on a look of confusion, similar to what was experienced by [REDACTED] upon first viewing the hallway leading to SCP-2192-1. (Further testing showed that only those who had previously used the hallway experienced a moment of confusion upon first viewing, and that anyone who had never been down that hallway before, expressed that ‘it looks just like any other hallway’.) (Additionally footage reviewed, shows that the hallway leading to SCP-2192-1 as always been in existence; a theory concurrent with the design of the foundation. At this point it is believed that the room that most likely exists behind SCP-2192-1, SCP-2192-1, and the hallway leading to SCP-2192-1, are not a part of SCP-2192 and have always been a part of the foundation.

An expedition was proposed by [REDACTED]. The researchers agreed, though the security officers denied them and quickly reported what they had experienced to their supervisor, who then reported to the site director. Within three hours a team was stationed just outside the hallway leading to SCP-2192-1. While a security force stood by, one class-D personnel was sent down the hallway and tasked with opening SCP-2192-1 and stepping inside. The Class D opened the door, and after giving a glance towards the security team, stepped inside. After only 8 seconds of glancing around the room, the class D stepped back out and shut the door behind him. He then, at a casual pace, walked back to the security team and asked “Is that it?”. The lead asked him what he saw to which the class D personnel shrugged. (See Addendum 2192-A)

The next day a Class D personnel who before being arrested for [REDACTED] was attending a collage specializing in photography, was sent in with a high definition, recording device, and tasked with video taping the room and any and every object he could find in it. After spending only three minutes in the room the Class D emerged and handed over the video camera. Several tests were done to the camera, however none of them were able to find the recordings that the Class D claims he took in his interview. (See ██████-████-██).

The same class D was sent back in, this time with a video recording device designed to produce a live feed. However when he opened the door and stepped inside the door slammed shut before he had the chance to turn the device on. This action will hereby be referred to as instance-2192-A (Due to the nature of SCP-2192 it is unclear weather his body, alive or dead, is still in the room, if their even is a room. Though do to following class D’s general uninterest in the room, he is believed to have vanished completely.) A further test with a class D showed that entering SCP-2192-1 multiple times is not the cause of instance-2192-A. And only those who attempt to describe the room, or have the ‘intent’ to describe the room will encounter instance-2192-A; this has been confirmed to work with live feeds, talking, signing, or illustrating.

When one selected class D personnel was given a tracking device and tasked with entering the room and shouting out what he saw, the door slammed shut and the signal from said device vanished, only to reappear the next time SCP-2192-1 was opened; rolling out the cracked door, hollowed out with a small printed note inside with the words ‘Nice Try’ printed on them in a font identical to Comic Sans, and a picture of an emoticon ‘winky face’ below. Scans of the note show the fingerprints of 4 of the 19 Class D personnel who interacted with SCP-2192-1, 1 of which who had never disappeared, and 1 who had never fully stepped inside, in addition to one security officer who had never approached the door, or had ever had the opportunity to do so. They were subsequently terminated.

At this point access to SCP-2192 and SCP-2192-1 is restricted, and has been put under constant guard. Additional several attempts have been made to seal off the hallway, as well as SCP-2192-1, however each attempt seems to fail, though no one can remember having assigned anyone to the task, or allocating resources to do so; the only record of these failed attempts being that of paper work, that at some point will reference personnel that are either stationed in a different foundation, or have a job description that would not make them suitable for the task to begun with. It is at this time unknown weather these failed attempts have happened, or if the paper work is a manifestation of SCP-2192.

At this time there has been no further reported activity from SCP-2192 or SCP-2192-1; though there is no way to be certain.

Addendum 2192-A: Interview with Class D first to step through SCP-2192-1

Dr.█████████: Explain to me in as much detail as you can manage, what you saw when you stepped through the door.

██████: Well hello to you too.

Dr.█████████: Please answer the question.

[██████ at this point scoffs and begins to glance around the room]

██████: Is this some sort of joke or something?

Dr.█████████: Why do you think this is a joke?

[Again ██████ scoffs]

██████: Because there was nothing important in there.

Dr.█████████: You’re saying it was empty?

██████: No, I’m saying that there was nothing important, just a stupid… Uh… Oh what was it?

[██████ begins to try and shape an object with his hands, though it’s size and shape fluctuate greatly.]

██████: You know? You’ve seen it right?

Dr.█████████: Can you not remember the object in the room?

██████: I can’t… I mean I remember it, I just can’t…

[██████ shows mild discomfort)

██████: It’s not like I opened the door and then forgot everything, I know I did something and saw something.

[██████ stands up and begins pacing]

Dr.█████████: Please sit back down.

██████: I think better when I stand, just give me a minute.

[At this point Dr.(block out) signals the two security officers in the room to be ready to subdue ██████ should it be necessary.]

Dr.█████████: Try just telling me about the room. What did the room look-

██████: I would tell you if I knew… All I remember is how uninteresting it was… Or was I bored?

Dr.█████████: Can you tell me anything about the room.

[At this point ██████ chuckled lightly]

██████: I can’t even tell you if it was a room.