Item #: SCP-2882

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-2882 is housed in a regular humanoid containment unit. Containment of SCP-2882 is watched over by at least one guard at its entrance. SCP-2882 may speak with the guard and hold conversation. It is to be periodically checked for signs of self harm. SCP-2882 is to attend bi-weekly therapy sessions with the on-site therapist, currently Dr. Larsen.

Dr. Larsen has tasked the subject with a daily diary, for which it has been granted a notebook and pen. SCP-2882 is also to have at least 15 minutes of discussion with any Foundation personnel at least once every 48 hours. All personnel interacting with SCP-2882 are to provide accounts of their own lives when requested to and are recommended to share accounts of exclusively mundane daily activities such as meals or leisure time. If SCP-2882 becomes distressed or demands accounts of greater significance, the on-site therapist is to be contacted immediately.

SCP-2882 is allowed access to a 3 hour session with a member of D-class personnel once every 7 days. The D-class personnel is to recount their life experiences before their arrival to the Foundation for SCP-2882. Due to SCP-2882's deteriorating mental state, Dr. Larsen has recommended no further sessions. To help with stabilization, SCP-2882 has the privilege to request objects instead, though the total worth of requests may not exceed 85 US Dollars within a 30 day period. This limit may be raised or lowered depending on behavior.

Description: SCP-2882 is a humanoid male of indiscriminate ethnicity and age with no name1, of approximately 1.8 meters in height and 62 kilograms in weight. SCP-2882 is physically normal, with the exception of an abnormally thick dermis. This is likely a consequence of its anomalous properties and currently does not harm SCP-2882. It is generally cooperative with the Foundation. It will often request to hear recounts of personal experiences, even though it appears fully aware of the detrimental effect it has on its mental health.

SCP-2882 is capable of speaking in any language fluently, so long as it is first spoken to in the language. It is also competent at reading in any language but can only write in a language when instructed to.

When a person recounts any personal experience to SCP-2882, SCP-2882 will claim to be capable of remembering the experience as if it was its own. This has been confirmed with SCP-2882 being capable of recounting certain details of the surroundings and context of the experience that weren't previously mentioned in the recounting. Each individual experience coincides with the appearance of a tattoo on SCP-2882's skin. There is likely no upper limit on the amount of experiences SCP-2882 may remember and it doesn't forget any shared experiences, although it is capable of forgetting memories of its own life.

SCP-2882's skin is approximately 97% covered in tattoos2, with several layers of tattoos in certain places. These tattoos are apparently capable of shifting locations and between layers outside of SCP-2882's control. When SCP-2882 recounts an experience spoken to it, the corresponding tattoo will glow faintly.

SCP-2882's mental state has degenerated significantly since coming into Foundation acquisition, partially due to its anomalous properties and partially due to SCP-2882's strong desire to be returned to an unknown entity that created it. Dr. Larsen has been assigned to SCP-2882 as its psychologist and has been authorized to refer to it colloquially during interviews, counseling sessions, and in SCP-2882's general presence.

Interview 2882-001

'When Kindness Is Eclipsed With Cruelty' PASSWORD ACCEPTED

Date: August 18, 1998

Interviewer: Doctor Larsen

Interviewee: SCP-2882

[BEGIN LOG]

Dr. Larsen: Hello, SCP-2882. Are you okay with that designation?

SCP-2882: I'm ok with whatever you want to call me. I'm not mentally ill, Doctor Larsen. You can see I'm fully lucid and have not harmed myself or others in any manner. I don't know who called you to pick up some random homeless guy, but I'm fine and I don't need the charity. Please let me leave.

Dr. Larsen: I'm afraid we can't do that right now. Could you tell me where you get your tattoos? We've heard reports they're quite unusual.

SCP-2882: Oh. I didn't think you guys actually existed. Are you going to kill me now? Keep me for horrible experiments? Are you head baddie, Doctor Larsen?

Dr. Larsen: [laughs] I can assure you we're nothing like the movies. If you can answer a few questions for me, we'll have your room set up right away.

SCP-2882: [sighs, rubs a tattoo on his cheek] Well, ok, I can tell you everything I remember, Doctor Larsen. My memory isn't what it used to be…

Dr. Larsen: That's okay. Could you tell me who you are, what do you do that's different from others? Were you always like this?

SCP-2882: Mmn… tell me your story first. If you do, I'll tell you mine. I don't need your career in your super secret organization or anything. Just give me some stories of your childhood.

Dr. Larsen: Well, I had two parents who were very kind to me. I used to read a ton of books. I had a pretty average childhood, I think.

SCP-2882: [closes eyes and leans back in chair] Mmn… Thanks, Doctor Larsen, you are really nice. But there was one I want to hear more, it happened on a 4th of July. The family always made a big meal to celebrate; they always seemed to have such a good time and I- I mean, you were-

Dr. Larsen: Jealous, yes. For a long time, I was so jealous. And on the year I was old enough to join in on the festivities, I was tasked to-

SCP-2882: Cut onions. We didn't know any better, you were so cute, they were so happy. I remember it well, Dad was smiling that slightly crooked smile when you knew he pranked you and you didn't know it yet, and then your eyes started to water-

Dr. Larsen: [in a higher pitched voice] Dad, why'm onions make cry? It hurts! [laughs] He was laughing so loudly, then mom saw and joined in. My older brother told me to be tough and go through it, since he went through it last year-

SCP-2882: So then I turned back to the onions and everything was blurry, but everyone was laughing, but then- [sharply inhales and holds the palm of its left hand with a wince; a new tattoo depicting an open cut can be seen] It was really deep, there was so much blood-

Dr. Larsen: That's enough for now, SCP-2882. [tentatively rubs over the scar of her own left palm]

SCP-2882: …The family never was quite the same whenever you were in the kitchen. For a while I… you thought…

Dr. Larsen: …that I had ruined the 4th of July forever.

SCP-2882: I wish I could say sorry to them all. Especially dad. He never pranked you again. I still want to see his crooked smile, sometimes, even after all these years. [opens eyes again] You had questions?

Dr. Larsen: Yes, about your own childhood?

SCP-2882: Not as emotional as yours, I think. I don't remember much of it, now. I was made, not born. Sculpted out of the leftovers of a star's corpse by something big and wonderful and wise. Perhaps not God like humans know it, but maybe something a bit like it. It sent me here, so that I could help it learn even more, when I come back with all these new experiences of what it means to be human.

Dr. Larsen: How are you sure you'll "come back"?

SCP-2882: Sometimes my parent sends me messages. It's been getting harder lately, but I can hear their voice if I can clear my head and listen enough. They say they're proud of me and that I'll be home soon. It's all anyone could ever want, right? To make their parent proud?

[END LOG]

Notes: This was the initial interview upon containment. SCP-2882 displayed noticeable emotional distress and Dr. Larsen was tasked with calming and interviewing SCP-2882.

Excerpts Document 2882-01: The following are excerpts of Document 2882-01, SCP-2882's diary.

August 18, 2002

Doctor Larsen told me to make a journal today. I He said they I needed to work on my pronoun use. He says if I recover enough we can have our D-class sessions again. They I really want that. It's the best chance I have to go home. I hope he I'm picked up soon.

I really want to do good for my mum. I'm going to call it my mum; that's quite human. I think my mum would be proud.

April 4, 2005

The decision today has been that she I will write memories here in hopes I they will be less hard on me them me.

A little while ago, I remember being at the mall being told about being at the mall. There was a girl I the person really liked. I felt so strongly about loving her, but I was they were so afraid of her rejection that I never told my true feelings to her.

I still regret it to this day It never happened to me. It's just a story. I have to remember what Doctor Larsen said to do my thinking exercises so I can get better and… and… I had to check my other diary but it's having something called D-class sessions. I don't remember them but, I remember they we they? were really important.

I remember. I remember my mom. Keep her in mind. She'll bring me home and then be so proud of me. Maybe we can celebrate an Easter together. I think mum would like hearing all I learned about families and family holidays.

The following page is a rough sketch of an unknown nebula. It is labeled 'home'.

October 31, 2005

Halloween always brings a lot of memories. We'll try to keep some down.

When I this person was very young, this one Halloween, my parents couldn't come follow me because they worked so long and were so tired. It was ok, because mom bought me a costume right before the big night. I got a grocery bag to collect candy with, because I knew this would be the only time of year I could get sweets, because dad and mom only made enough to keep us housed and fed.

The night was really cold and my mask was too big. I remember it was so, so cold. My fingers were numb and each stair to the houses were so big compared to my tiny body. Some people were asking where my parents were, so I- Damn. Damn! It's too difficult for him me.

My stomach hurts from all the candy I never ate. The cavities were worth it, though. At least I I? We all thought they were.

My favorite was the chips! My favorite was the lollipops! My favorite was the chocolate! My favorite was the bubblegum! My favorite was jawbreakers! Cotton Candy! Licorice! He doesn't like- I

 don't

 even

  like

 sweets.

 

 

 

It's really hard to sleep with a stomachache.

 

 

Dr. Larsen's Note: October 31, 2005 was the first documented incident in which SCP-2882 displayed self-harming behavior. The next morning, SCP-2882 was found to have deep, self-inflicted bite marks in its forearms, several of which broke skin. It could not explain itself upon interview.

August 19, 2010

I had The agent had my coffee black today. I don't like it black much, it tastes bitter. Why did I have it black when I

Illegible text, presumably random scribbling as suggested by Dr. Larsen when SCP-2882 is frustrated.

There is a feeling that there should be a voice that should be there. Is it mine? Is it me? It is someone important, I am waiting for the important person. Make them proud. Someone all embracing, but I don't remember their face.

The previous journals, but these are his memories, why aren't I remembering her own? Giving up on pronouns now, their head hurts, it's too hard. Shouldn't stay up so late.

August 20, 2010

I remember who I was listening for. I haven't heard from them in over ten years.

The following page is presumably an extremely rough copy of the unknown nebula sketch in the journal dated April 4, 2005. The copy is covered in question marks. The paper shows signs of water damage.

December 24, 2010

Christmas is coming up.

He they I wanted to show his her ? mMother, far away, what family was like.

And maybe see it through her my its one's own eyes.

Dr. Larsen's note: This entry is the last time SCP-2882 produced an entry in words and sentences. Every following entry has been a series of highly detailed pictures, presumably memories that have been shared with it. SCP-2882's mental health rapidly deteriorated after Christmas.

Footnotes

1. SCP-2882 will respond to any designation as if it was its name, so long as it is directed towards it.

2. This includes skin inside of the mouth, such as the inner lips, cheek, tongue, and gums.