All currently contained instances of SCP-618, in a ventilated area.

Item #: SCP-618

Object Class: Safe

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-618 is to be held in a standard containment locker, located in Site-77's Safe SCP wing. The ventilation shaft leading to SCP-618's containment locker has been equipped with air filters to prevent the spread of SCP-618's effect. All personnel assigned to SCP-618 are to be given weekly medical assessments and physicals in order to check if they are affected by SCP-618.

Description: SCP-618 is a set of 18 Cuban cigars sharing the same anomalous effect. All instances of SCP-618 are approximately 116 mm, RG 40 (15,87 mm). In addition, each instance is constantly producing smoke, whether or not it has actually been lit. All subjects smelling this smoke have described it as incredibly appealing, whether or not they normally smoke tobacco.

The smoke being continuously provided by SCP-618 can cause damage to the human body. Initial testing on Class-D personnel has revealed it to be highly addictive. After being used, the smoke may settle on a human subject's skin. Within 2-3 days of this, large cysts will appear on any area of the subject's skin physically contacted by SCP-618's smoke.

If the subject smokes an instance of SCP-618, they may begin to experience large cysts growing within their throat, lungs, and other internal organs. These cysts will grow continuously as long as they are being exposed to SCP-618's smoke. This may be fatal to the subject, if the SCP-618 instance is smoked for a long enough period of time. When the subject ceases smoking the instance, the cysts will begin producing smoke identical to SCP-618, luring others to the area and causing them to be affected by SCP-618.

The SCP-618 cysts may push limbs, muscles and bones into specific positions, usually resembling a casual position such as being seated or leaning against a solid surface. Note that by this point, subjects are unable to speak or move on their own due to the prevalence of the cysts, and usually do not survive. As the subject continues to stay in this area, their bodies will emanate large amounts of smoke, and instances of SCP-618 will grow from their lips. This will continue until the subject expires and begins to decompose.

SCP-618 was initially recovered from a residential home in ███████, FL. Seven subjects seated at a table were found to have distended abdomens and chest cavities, with numerous cysts in and on their bodies. All bodies had instances of SCP-618 in their mouths, and were producing smoke. Autopsies of the victims showed substantial cysts and inflammation throughout their body, which had forced them into sitting positions around the table. Testing showed that each cyst appeared to contain a hollow sac with substantial gaseous quantities of SCP-618's smoke inside.