An instance of a mature SCP-632

Item #: SCP-632

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-632 is to be contained in a secure Biological Storage Unit cooled to below 2°C at all times. Any personnel interacting with or using SCP-632 for experimentation is to wear a Foundation-issue biohazard suit to prevent contamination. Used suits are to be placed in a sterile airtight bag in the airlock and brought to the incinerator immediately. Personnel are to report to the supervising researcher if any sensation of spider silk on skin is felt while in SCP-632's containment unit, and any personnel suspected of being infected must submit his/her blood for testing immediately. Infected personnel are to be terminated by lethal injection before the onset of psychological symptoms, and the corpses incinerated. At no times are infected personnel to be terminated by gunshot, especially in the head. All members are to be accounted for once every 24 hours. Uncontained cases of SCP-632 are to be neutralised on the spot with liquid nitrogen and brought to Site-██ in an airtight container.

Description: SCP-632 is a colony of previously-undiscovered arachnids growing up to 3 cm in diameter. Currently, they number ████. SCP-632 are unusually resilient to heat, surviving temperatures of above 80°C; however, they are effectively immobilized and contained at temperatures below 2°C. SCP-632 are not unusual behaviour-wise except that all members of the colony are female; they undergo parthenogenesis to reproduce. When active, SCP-632 will secrete a feathery thread from its spinnerets and attach its microscopic eggs (10-16 μm in diameter) along it. The threads are virtually weightless and will be transported around by small air currents. Upon contact with warm skin, the eggs will hatch into juvenile SCP-632, whose sole purpose is to seek out and burrow into the sweat pores in the skin. Once inside the body, SCP-632 will live off body tissue, burrowing into the nearest blood vessels. Due to their minute size, this is rarely fatal or painful.

The second stage of infection occurs when SCP-632 reach the brain. There, they propagate in the tiny blood vessels in the frontal cortex and rapidly increase in size, living on brain tissue. The pressure on the blood vessels will lead to a severe headache in the infected individual only occurring in one specific spot on the head. Repeated tapping on the affected spot triggers a release of endorphins by SCP-632, relieving the pain. This will quickly lead to an obsessive-compulsive disorder where the infected is compelled to apply blunt force repeatedly on the affected area, gradually becoming more violent and forceful as the headache worsens. Eventually, the skull will fracture and ██-███ instances of SCP-632 will emerge from the brain and out of the weakened point on the skull. The infected host will usually expire due to blood loss and loss of brain matter.

Additional Notes: SCP-632 was discovered in ██████, China, after reports of an entire village bludgeoned to death came to the attention of the police. The Foundation was alerted by its local correspondent, and Agents ███████ and ██████████ were dispatched. Due to having no prior knowledge of the SCP, neither was properly protected and both succumbed to SCP-632 infection, along with the investigating police patrol. A full Biohazard Containment Squad was deployed, and spread of SCP-632 was halted abruptly. Agent ███████ was found alive in his apartment continuously and deliriously banging his head against the wall. He was promptly sedated and brought into containment, but managed to reawaken, get hold of a surgeon's scalpel, and [DATA EXPUNGED]. Fortunately, the resulting colony was swiftly brought under control.