A cucumber sandwich served on SCP-807

Item #: SCP-807

Object Class: Euclid

Special Containment Procedures: SCP-807 is to be kept in a locked safe deposit box at Site 19's High Value Item Storage Facility. Standard positive-action defenses (explosive, chemical, biological, and memetic) are to be in place at all times, according to standard operating procedure.

SCP-807 may be removed from its storage container with proper authorization for experimentation. All personnel working around SCP-807 must be well-fed, and should wear oral restraints to prevent accidental ingestion.

Description: SCP-807 is a salmon-colored ceramic dinner plate 20 cm in diameter with the words "Last Chance Diner" printed on the edges in white. A small piece has been chipped out of one edge of the plate, just above the letter D. There are no manufacturer's marks, and to date, all efforts to find the restaurant in question have failed.

SCP-807 transmutes any food served upon it into a variation of its original form with high concentrations of fat, sodium, and cholesterol. Once transmuted, the food in question is enhanced in flavor and aroma to preternatural levels, to the point where the desire to consume said food becomes nearly irresistible. Anyone who does consume said food, however, will undergo cardiac arrest within five minutes of finishing their meal, due to sudden and massive fatty buildup in the major arteries. In some cases, immediate bypass surgery has been shown to be effective in saving the life of a subject.

Addendum 807-A: Recorded Transmutations

Cucumber sandwich made with fresh cucumbers, white bread, and 2 cc butter - Fried egg sandwich (pictured above).

Vegetarian Patty with fresh lettuce, tomato, and onion, with 4 cc ketchup, 4 cc mustard, and two slices dill pickle on a whole-wheat bun - "Luther" burger served on two Krispy Kreme donuts with three beef patties consisting of a total of 0.5 kg of beef, served with lettuce, tomato, onion, 8 cc ketchup, 8 cc mayonnaise, 8 cc mustard, with a fried dill pickle on the side.

Luther Burger - [DATA EXPUNGED]. Further testing of high-fat foods with SCP-807 has been suspended due to the high number of casualties.