The Kingdom may refer to the trope about a monarch's territory. If you're looking for that, see below.

You might also be looking for the following works:

       If you were looking for one of those (or any other) works, and were lead here by a direct wick, please correct the link in the concerned page so that it points towards the proper article.

the empire is evil. the federation is generally good, often neutral and occasionally evil. The Kingdom, on the other hand, is almost always good.

Often very small, sometimes just a single city-state or a castle with a few outlying villages, but it often has wealth or power beyond its size, usually large natural deposits of precious metals or green rocks, sometimes as a result of some form of applied phlebotinum. (May be somewhat larger in a feudal future.) Often containing large stretches of the ghibli hills and arcadia, punctuated by the shining city.

The Kingdom is the damsel in distress of nations, almost always being the one to fall under a witch's curse or be invaded by the empire. Usually the standard setting for fairy tales, and when it's not, will often look as if it came out of a fairy tale anyway, even if it's in a sci-fi setting. If a kingdom is doing something evil, the king has most likely been deposed, or brainwashed, or replaced with an evil duplicate, or hasn't been paying enough attention to the evil chancellor's extra-curricular activities with the troops. Remember, a kingdom is only pure if the "true" monarch is in charge. the evil prince is not a "true" monarch, mind you. Nor is the queen if she decides to take over by killing her husband, which happens quite often; in fact, a queen in charge is often a bad omen (though there are exceptions). And obviously, nor is the puppet king.

Since everything's better with princesses, any self-respecting Kingdom has one. She is usually benevolent and loved by the citizens, as well as gorgeous, of course and is commonly the hero's love interest. (The obvious exception being when the hero is, himself, the heir to the throne or a young and probably deposed king trying to save his own kingdom - in these cases, he will simply take a likely and kindhearted peasant girl to uplift into an honorary version of those tropes.)

One of the most common forms of magical land.

