America Wins The War is a form of hollywood history in which a story implies or outright states that the United States single-handedly won world war ii. Sometimes, it's unintentional; the viewpoint or focus is simply too narrow for the audience to be reminded of the bigger picture. Other times, though, it's a blatant example of hollywood history.

When this trope is in play, the efforts and contributions of the other "Western" Allies are downplayed, and the Eastern Front (where more than 80% of the Wehrmacht was engaged at any one time after June 22 1941, and where the Germans lost 2/3 of their dead and captured) is considered a sideshow, if it's even mentioned at all. Often it seems like the only other Allied nation-state that actually did anything to fight Germany was the UK, which (after the poles and french got their asses handed to them) kept the hopeless fight alive until the USA joined in and saved the day. This is likely a result of the cold war making American educators and filmmakers unwilling to glorify the soviet union or china/maoist china.

In particularly nasty cases, films based on actual WWII events will be warped to make the most prominent characters into US soldiers—see Steve McQueen in The Great Escape and, perhaps most infamously, the film U571. It will occasionally even be said that WWII only began on December 7, 1941, when the United States entered the war, although that's usually poor phrasing or mixing up the dates, rather than a belief that the war did not begin until the US entry.

The D-Day landings are another good example. Many American-made productions will focus solely on Omaha Beach, the most heavily fortified of the four landing sites as well as the best-defended—both facts which Allied intelligence failed to realize prior to the operation. The carnage that ensued is a favourite among producers, since it emphasizes the sacrifice Americans made during the war—but doing so gives the impression that Omaha Beach was the decisive turning point that led to the Allied victory in Europe. (The focus on Omaha Beach is also partially because Saving Private Ryan did it, other games/movies/tv shows want to replicate its success, and because it's more exciting to show a strongly opposed landing than an unopposed one — not that the other landings were exactly 'unopposed' (For instance, Canadian troops landing at Juno Beach on that day faced opposition almost as formidable and made better progress towards their objectives in spite of it), but still.

Cases of this trope are not limited to the European Theater. Most films featuring the Pacific theatre only focus on the naval and air battles fought by the U.S., appearing as though they were the sole force fighting in the Pacific. In reality, UK and Australian forces played significant roles against overwhelming forces in atrocious conditions, and many other nations contributed as well. Not to mention the ''brutally'' violent war in china, probably the most ignored battlefront of the war. This neglect is strange given that it was the longest conflict (starting in 1937) and believed to be the the second-bloodiest theatre of war in human history after the Eastern European Theatre.

Keep in mind that despite having the name "America Wins The War," this is not a strictly American trope. The British can and will exaggerate their role in the war as well, with an additional jab that the Americans were not only late to the party but also stole all the credit, and additionally only joined in when they knew who was going to win. Russia also this; there, you'll find claims that WWII lasted from June 22, 1941 to May 9, 1945—when this was actually just the duration of the war between the USSR and Germany, (which ironically sells the Soviet Union short because their successful campaigns against Japan in 1939 and late 1945 aren't included in that time frame). Lately they've also picked up the highly disturbing tendency to gloss over or outright deny some of the crimes that the soviet union committed in its conduct during and shortly after the war. In short, many countries have tried to play up their part in the war at the expense of others and such examples are more than welcome.

Some see this general 'limited scope' thing as extending to the "official" date of the war's beginning, September 1st, 1939, the date of Germany's invasion of Poland. Most, however, accept that the moniker of 'World War' denotes merely the geography of a war (the British Empire alone spanned three continents at the time), rather than implying the conflict wasn't 'serious' or something (the japan of the time, and many Japanese ultranationalists since, call it 'the china incident'). Though bloody and horrific in its own right, the war that chiang kai-shek's guomindang waged against imperial japan wasn't part of the 'World War' until the imperial navy lashed out to take malaya and the philippines.

None of this is meant to diminish the contribution the United States, or any other single country, made to winning World War II, of course. The United States was very important, since not only was it the main presence on the Western and Pacific Fronts, but by virtue of heavy European investment over the last century or so they had developed the world's no.1 economy, accounting for perhaps a third of the entire world's GDP and maybe as much as 'half' of its industry (though not all of the latter was useful, of course). The United States also had more than twice the population of the Commonwealth, India aside. From the point of American entry, the Allies could have just broken even in the death count and material-destruction figures and still have won (Guomindang China aside, of course). Josef Stalin is on record acknowledging that without American loans and industry backing them up the Soviets would lost 'far' more dead and crippled, and there would basically have been no chance of the Allies 'winning' any part of Europe in the peace to follow (when the USSR won in 1946/7, or '48 at the latest). None of the anti-Axis powers won the war all by their lonesome; everyone had their part, and the USA's was certainly in the top three.

Lastly, winning a war means nothing unless one also "wins the peace", as was the case in vienna in 1815 and infamously not at versailles in 1918. In the aftermath of World War II, the USA and Britain and the USSR all deserve recognition for demarking and respecting crystal-clear 'spheres of influence' that kept the peace despite the outbreak of the Yugoslavian, Greek, and chinese civil wars. When the CCP gained the upper hand in the Chinese Civil War, and the USA began to see the ussr as a threat, the USA also began to funnel a great deal of money into reconstructing the British and other Western European economies so that they could sustain larger militaries and thus avoid the need for committing us troops to western europe in its defense. The membership of the USSR and USA in the united nations also gave it a lot more clout than its predecessor the League of Nations.

On the flip side, this trope might be known as "Nazis Fight Alone." In media about the European Theater, only German soldiers will serve as the antagonists. A possible exception would be North Africa, where the Italians made up a good portion of the troops fighting there, but not always. Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians, Bulgarians, Finns, and the various foreign units of the SS are almost entirely absent, despite their sizable presence on the Eastern Front.

See also america saves the day, of which this is a sub-trope, and hollywood history, of which that is a sub-trope.

Note: This trope specifically deals with world war ii. It does not apply to any other war, particularly modern conflicts.

