A sister trope to mayincatec, spexico, far east and scotireland, a tendency for writers to overlap the Greek and Roman civilizations and confuse aspects of the two Classical civilizations, e.g. Roman numerals in an otherwise Greek setting, Greek Gods in Rome, and vice versa, et cetera.

No relation to oxbridge; that one is a commonly accepted overlap.

Though due in part to research failure, the Romans themselves are not blameless; they imitated the Greeks in almost every aspect of life (Classical Greeks from their glory days, that is; contemporary modern Greeks were more considered as petty butt monkeys). One of the most blatant examples is classical mythology. Other examples can be found in Politics, Science, the hyper-realistic statues, et cetera.

Some Roman authors had a habit of inserting Greek quotations into their works. At the time, Greece was seen as the source of culture, philosophy, science and learning in general, and Greek was seen as a symbol of cultivation and intelligence (and no doubt the Romans also thought it was downright awesome) hence why science, mathematics, philosophy and the like have a massively bad tendency to do this, reinforcing the association on how intellectuals, scientists, mathematicians and such know both latin and greek. Romans of the late Republic and early Imperial era tended to use quite a lot of Greek in their speech, and Caesar is said to have quoted a Greek play in Greek when crossing the Rubicon. Caesar also gave the world its most refined case of beam me up, scotty! ever after Shakespeare reported his dying words as the Latin "Et tu, Brute?" If Caesar said anything at all, it was the Greek καὶ σὺ τέκνον? (that reads "Kai su, teknon?"), which translates to "You too, my son?" in English and "Tu quoque, Brute, fili mi?" in Latin.

The Romans would also continue placing plays in Athens or other Greek cities, to avoid slandering the state, but leave everything else Roman-like. The epics of homer inspired the aeneid of Virgil (even though it was actually an attempt to connect Rome's distant past with Greece's enemies, by making Romans the descendants of Trojans), and authors such as Seneca the younger wrote using Greek styles. The Roman Emperor nero visited Greece in 66 AD, and performed at the Ancient Olympic Games, despite the rules against non-Greek participation. Compared to other colonies, the Greeks basically enjoyed relative freedom under the Roman Empire and continued their lives as they did previously. Also, due to massive Greek colonization (mainly before the rise of Rome), a large chunk of southern Italy was known as Magna Græcia (Μεγάλη Ἑλλάς, Megálē Hellás) — "Great Greece."

While Latin was the official language in Rome, Greek was the actual international Lingua Franca and cultural language of the greater Roman empire, at least in the eastern half of the Empire, much like how English nowadays is both the international lingua franca and also the language of science. The vast majority of the new testament was originally in Greek as a result, as it was written for a diverse audience living under the Roman empire.

It would probably be valuable to note, at this point, that "Ancient Greece" is itself a lesser example of cultural blending; see ancient greece.

When ancient grome meets language, you get canis latinicus.

Has nothing to do with gnomes from ancient civilizations, or with the King of the Earth Elementals in the elric of melniboné universe, and the other title choice — "Ancient Reece" — would have been even less indicative due to sounding too much like a slang term for stale peanut butter cups. Or an aging actress with a surname of witherspoon.

