In the fifth century, after the evacuation of roman troops, the Anglo-Saxons came to Britain. These were a cluster of Germanic tribes, notably the Angles (from what is now schleswig-holstein in Germany), the Saxons (mostly from what is now lower saxony in modern Germany), and the Jutes (from the Jutland Peninsula in modern denmark), who all shared a culture vaguely resembling that of the Vikings.

They settled down and after a while converted to christianity. They struggled among themselves for supremacy, forming what is called (for the sake of neat organization and poetic phrasing) the "Bretwalda" or seven kingdoms (sometimes the "Heptarchy") of the Saxons: East Anglia, Essex, Kent, Sussex, Wessex, Mercia, and Northumbria. These kingdoms vied for supremacy until the arrival of the danes made their quarrels seem petty.

The Danes settled in Britain and in a few generations, conquered almost all the Anglo-Saxon lands. However, Wessex had a recovery under Alfred the Great and his descendants which continued until they had reconquered all the Danish-occupied lands (now called the Danelaw). This made the House of Wessex ruler over all the Angles' lands, hence the term "England". The Wessex house lost its grip and was overthrown by Norse invaders under Cnut the Great, the King of Denmark and Norway; although the House of Wessex got the throne back after Cnut's sons Harald Harefoot and Harthacanute died without surviving legitimate issue, England nevertheless became a combined Saxon-Scandinavian nation, which was an easy fit once the wars had been forgotten because they had very similar cultures. After Harthacanute's successor Edward the Confessor also died without issue, Harold Godwinson, of the powerful Godwin family, claimed the throne by agreement of the witenagamot (see below), but he was overthrown by the Duke of Normandy, William the Conqueror. This is considered the end of Anglo-Saxon England and the beginning of norman england, and the shift of the main external influence on England from the Nordic countries to France.

The Anglo-Saxons are noted for their poetry and their art. Examples of Anglo Saxon art are illuminated scriptures such as those made at Lindisfarne Abbey (many of whom were lost when it was sacked), and the royal hoard from the Sutton Hoo burial ship. References to Saxon poetry are found on TV Tropes as well.

Their law system has also been admired. Much of it was based on webs of oaths and patronage and even hostage-exchange between nobles; somewhere between a clannish system and a feudal one. However they are also considered to be in some ways the founders of English Parliamentary government because of their system of Moots (councils) that led from the small village moot to the Witanagemot (Council of Wise Men) — Witan for short — which advised the King.

The resemblance of this system to a modern democracy has been exaggerated in the past. While it wasn't a democracy, neither was it an absolute rule, and the King was wise to listen to the Witan. Moreover, the Witan had a considerable say in the succession to the crown, even though the previous king's influence may have been strongest. The Anglo-Saxons also instituted a number of other elements of English government, including the office of sheriff. "Sheriff," by the way, comes from "shire reeve," "reeve" being like a magistrate and "shire" like a county.

The term "Angle" by the way, is said to mean "fishhook", although it could also mean "narrows" or "tight bay" (the Angles were from Angeln, a part of eastern Schleswig bounded on the south by the Schlei inlet and bounded on the north by the "Firth of Flensburg"—both narrows of the Baltic Sea). Saxon comes from a machete-like chopping blade much in vogue among them for both war and for peaceful purposes.

See alfred the great, and aethelflaed for notable Anglo-Saxons. See Beowulf, The Battle of Maldon and Dream of the Rood for examples of Anglo-Saxon poetry.

Related to white anglo-saxon protestant only in the sense that a number of these were descended from Anglo-Saxons and that Anglo-Saxons were what we would consider white today. They were of course not protestants.

 The 9th century  Parts of  Cerdic of Wessex and his Saxon army are the villains in the 2004 film   The novelist  The invading Saxons are the antagonists of the middle novels of  The unearthing of an Anglo-Saxon crown is the catalyst of               