

In the last month of the summer of 1945, world war ii was in its endgame. With nazi germany defeated, imperial japan stood alone. The half-million men of the china expeditionary force had been cut off from all supply and its garrisons were left to rot on the vine, scouring the countryside for food and grain on an even greater scale than ever before even as generalissimo chiang's guomindang moved to crush them one by one.  The 1.5 million men of the Kwantung (aka guandong) Army were busy being routed by some two million elite armoured and mechanised units of the Soviet Union's Red Army, more than a million Kwantung Army troops having thrown down their weapons and surrendering en masse, the Red Army hounding their panicked retreat onto the North China Plain around Beijing and down the Korean Peninsula. the imperial navy having been totally annihilated the previous year, save for the Tokubetsu Kogeki Speedboat and Submarine units, even the Soviets' tiny Far Eastern Flotilla was able to help the Red Army take Southern Sakhalin island. Given the Soviets' total air-supremacy, this left them in a position to make a supported landing on the northernmost 'Home Island' of Ezo/Hokkaido from the tiny and isolated IJA forces that had been assigned to defend it, and use this as a springboard to take Honshu .

The icing on the cake, though, was Operation Downfall. For while Hokkaido was of no strategic value, and the Soviets would not be able to amass land forces large- and well-supplied enough to take Tokyo because of their supply constraints, Operation Downfall promised to bring the fight directly to the capital. For the Tokyo Plains, the closest thing to 'tank country' in all the Japanese Isles, had - you guessed it - Tokyo smack-bang right in the middle of them. Worse still, the whole thing was girded by miles and miles of excellent beaches for landing an invasion force of over half a million men and (tens of) thousands of armoured vehicles on. Keeping said force supplied was not going to be a problem either, given the number of good ports in the area - and places to make good ports from scratch - and just how many transport ships the Allies had. Preventing the landings outright would be impossible, as the largest and most powerful battle-fleet ever assembled (with over ten thousand carrier-based aircraft) would help the invading troops annihilate any force within twenty kilometers of the coast, whether they used fortifications or not.

This page is NOT about whether or not the bombings were justified or not. The debate around the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki underpine   Both 1989 films titled  In  In  The bombing of Nagasaki is featured at the start of  The song 