During the Middle Ages and Renaissance, there was a constant naval war between the Christian States and the Muslim ones in the Mediterranean. When there was not a major campaign involved with this it was a handy excuse to be pirates. Circa 1570, the Republic of Venice was entering a prolonged decline in Mediterranean dominance and the Ottoman Empire was extending its hegemony into the world's oceans.

By the reign of the Sultan Selim II (affectionately known as Selim the sot), the Empire was recovering from its failed attempt to conquer Malta. The Ottomans turned their gaze toward Cyprus which was rich in sugar, and an important base, under the authority of the Venetians at the time. The Ottomans invaded Cyprus, and the threat provoked an alliance among the Mediterranean Christian states chief among whom were Venice and Spain. The Turks managed to conquer the island, but the Christian fleet arrived to defeat them in a battle of annihilation. The ironic result was that the Turks lost the main battle but ended up with the island. However, arguably this was a pyrrhic victory for the Turks as so many skilled sailors and warriors had been lost that the Turkish fleet would be incapable for a generation (the galleys themselves would be rebuilt quickly but fleets at the time depended so much on the skill of sailors that it was something of a bluff) by which time its preferred methods were so obsolete that recovery was impossible.

This battle was a crowning moment of awesome and celebrated as such. It was the last major galley battle before galleys were superseded by great sailing warships.

The historical accounts of the battle are controversial to this day, and may be colored by nationalism, pro-western bias, anti-western bias, or any number of historical frameworks. At the time, it was seen as an unambiguous victory, but revisionists often point that not only did the Turks rebuild their fleet, but they kept Cyprus as well. The post-revisionist view marks the battle as an even greater turning point, in that the Ottoman Empire was effectively excluded from competition over the world's oceans, due to the aforementioned lack of sailors and marines for their fleet. Indeed, the sheer cost of rebuilding the fleet was so great that the Ottomans had to let most of it rot not long after finishing it. While the Ottoman navy would continue to fight in the Mediterranean for a number of centuries, it would mostly lose against its Christian adversaries from now on. In a greater sense, this battle was the point where Christian navies took control of the world's oceans, as no country outside of Christendom had a fleet capable of meeting them in battle. Bottom line, it was important, an event on par with the Naval Battle of Actium fought not too far away many centuries earlier.

If taken to its logical end, this battle gave Christian empires control over most of the world's seas, as with it, the world itself. If that seems far-fetched, remember that naval power was critical in conquering and maintaining empires, and that control over sea lanes gave one control over trade, money, and everything that came with it. That's how imperialism worked in the centuries following Lepanto, at least. Had the Turks won at Lepanto, it is possible that Western imperialism might have been seriously impeded, particularly in the areas bordering the Mediterranean, Black Sea, Red Sea, and the Indian Ocean.

A rare option in the table top game Diplomacy, where Italy attacks Turkey, is named 'The Lepanto Gambit'.

                                        