This trope comes into play when an actor is cast for a role in a historical setting who would appear to be of the wrong ethnicity to portray such a role, usually because the population of any given place (bar major trade hubs like Venice or Wuhan) tended to be rather ethnically homogenous (people usually lived and died within a hundred kilometers of their birthplaces).

This is especially likely to happen when the writers don't know the actual ethnicities available, choose not to/don't care about ethnicity, have budget problems or a myriad other reasons.

Depending on the time and place, this can actually be realistic. Trade-cities have always been ethnic mash-ups, and soldiers and sailors have always been extraordinarily diverse lots. While other ethnicities were often rare and always a bit of a curiosity throughout history, racism as we know it only really caught on with the expansion of the slave trade—and even when racism became common, most people eventually developed the decency to allow people who looked different to move among them without rudely staring at them and the like, even though they still preferred to not have anything to do with them. You can see this in works such as Othello, where there is some discussion of Othello's race but for the most part he's one of the most respected men in Venice; you just wouldn't want your daughter to marry him.

In addition, some groups of people managed to travel quite far from home, despite it being the middle of the Medieval period. The Vikings, for example, created a series of "trade and raid" routes that included areas now found in Northern Africa, Lebanon, Turkey, Russia, the Balkans, and of course, North America. They often recruited new soldiers from the regions they'd travel to, not to mention taking slaves and occasionally wives, all of which were brought back to Scandinavia. In short, there were, in fact, black vikings. The trope also got inverted when Germanics and Scandinavians settled in North Africa and left behind enough mixed-race descendants to be found even nowadays, people much whiter than surrounding Arabs or Berbers.

In addition to human beings, this principle can apply to animals or even foods being found in geographic areas and/or eras where one would think they'd be nonexistent. You wouldn't believe there were ever jaguars along the Platte River in the American Midwest, but an explorer claimed to have spotted some there in 1843. Likewise, thomas jefferson famously served everything from macaroni and cheese to Middle Eastern dates and yogurt (for Ramadan, no less!) at his Monticello dinner parties.

It is possible that when a Black Viking appears in film or TV, the character is not intended to be seen as the same race as the actor. The actor used might have simply been the best available for the role, and the writers are merely asking us to use our imagination to make the actor's physical appearance fit the character's. (This is actually standard doctrine for modern stage theatrical productions.) Whiteface would of course be unthinkable (unless you're doing kabuki or mime).

the other wiki euphemistically calls this practice "colour-blind casting." They claim that a representative of Actors Equity strolled even further down the euphemism rabbit hole by calling it "non-traditional casting (which) is defined as the casting of ethnic minority and female actors in roles where race, ethnicity, or sex is not germane."

Named for 1978's The Norseman, starring Lee Majors, costarring the greatest pass rusher in NFL history, African-American Deacon Jones.

Subtrope of politically correct history. See also not even bothering with the accent, race lift.

