Cyberpunk is a speculative fiction genre centered around the transformative effects of advanced science, information technology, computers and networks ("cyber") coupled with a breakdown or radical change in the social order ("punk"). A genre that is dark and cynical in tone, it borrows elements from film noir, hard-boiled detective fiction and postmodern deconstruction to describe the dystopian side of an electronic society.

The plot will more than likely take place twenty minutes into the future in some city noir, industrial ghetto or crapsack world that tends to be marked by crime, cultural nihilism and bad weather, where cutting-edge technology only ends up being used by everyone for the sake of selfish profit and pleasure ("the street finds its own uses for things").

Heroes are often computer hackers or rebels, antiheroes almost to a man. These characters — "criminals, outcasts, visionaries, dissenters and misfits" — call to mind the private eye of detective fiction. This emphasis on the misfits and the malcontents is the "punk" component of cyberpunk. On the other hand, major villains are almost inevitably police states or multinational conglomerates led by powerful businessmen with a number of gun-toting mooks and corrupt politicians (or even an entire nation) at their beck and call.

If the work dates from the eighties, there's a good chance that there will be a theme of east asian economic dominance, with the evil corporations being sinister zaibatsu (possibly masterminded behind the scenes by yakuza) and Asian-sounding brand-names liberally scattered around. Examples from the turn of the millennium and beyond are likely to swap Japan out for china.

Expect the scientific philosophy of transhumanism to be a feature, what with artificial limbs and cable jacks in the skull that allow access to artificial realities. artificial intelligences and artificial humans (sometimes corrupted) are everywhere, while everything is online. This leads to a theme of "loss of distinction between real and artificial" on which philosophical and existential conflicts about transhumanism can arise, such as questions on the nature of identity and "what measure is a non-human?."

The genre's vision of a troubled future is often called the antithesis of the generally utopian visions of the future popular in the 1940s and 1950s, but keep in mind that it is not a term that should be applied to every speculative fiction dystopia or bad future ever in the history of the genre, and does not need to always have an anvilicious science is bad message to it.

Cyberpunk tends to be pretty hard on the mohs scale of sci-fi hardness, usually lingering between a 4 and a 5. This makes it one of the more realistic genres of sci-fi, but also makes older stories be very prone to zeerust. william gibson himself, considered the godfather of the Cyberpunk genre, has said that he was massively shortsighted on the advances in technology that would occur over the next three decades. The infamous "three megabytes of hot RAM" in Neuromancer are laugh-inducing to a modern audience who consider an eight gigabyte mp3 player to be one of the cheap and low-capacity ones.

Cyberpunk is also quite distinctive in its focus on Social stories in asimov's three kinds of science fiction. It certainly has Gadget and Adventure stories within the genre as well, numerous in fact, but Cyberpunk is a genre that focuses heavily on the impact of technology on society itself, possibly more than any other genre of sci-fi. Given that it's a more cynical genre than others, it particularly focuses on the negative impact of technology on society, but with the emergence of post-cyberpunk, portrayal of societal impact of technology has become more neutral and sometimes even positive. It's hard to condemn speculative technology when it becomes actual technology and we realize that, hey, it's not so bad.

See cyberpunk tropes and soyouwantto.write a cyberpunk story for Cyberpunk's characteristic tropes and what sets it apart from other dystopias. The story may fall on the Romanticism end of the romanticism versus enlightenment scale.

Not to be confused with the roleplaying game Cyberpunk, though that is an example. obviously.As a movement, it was the successor in some sense to the new wave science fiction movement of the sixties and seventies. Related to post cyber punk and cyber goth. Of course, several works fit on a continuum between the two tropes. See also cyberspace, dungeon punk, punk punk. Compare also with steam punk, which shares some similarities with cyberpunk. See also neo-africa.

