The USSR (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), America's sworn enemies during the cold war, has gone through several periods of stereotyping. The most famous is the Communist Russia of the cold war. Everyone's red, calls each other "comrade", and is trying to take away the freedom of the world in the name of communism. Of course, with the fall of communism in the country, this one is pretty dead. Then again, Vladimir Putin made his name in the KGB.

Then there are tall, furry hats, the cossack dance,  borshch, vodka (lots of vodka), and everyone constantly being miserable and cold, which is why they drink the vodka. These tropes seem permanently associated with the area. In recent years, the russian bride has started to turn up a lot. Chernobyl has also become very important in the outside world's views of the country, even though it is in Ukraine. This building will probably show up, too. No, it's not the kremlin.

For obvious reasons, the Sovetskiy Soyuz (and later Rossiyskaya Federatsiya) have been subject to a lot of california doubling over the years, although there are a number of late eighties films (such as The Russia House) actually filmed in Moscow, because of glasnost.

This article will list some of the more common ways for foreigners to get all things Russian wrong. In Russia proper, they are called razvesistaya klukva (blooming cranberry) and are a source of much humor.

 Fluffy hats. Yes, they are somewhat practical during the long cold winter, but they are not part of the national dress. The  Vodka. Sadly true, but again, mostly for the older generation.  Borscht. It is actually a matter of dispute between Russians and Ukrainians about whose national food it is (borscht as we know it today is of Ukrainian origin). But still mostly true, it's common and liked in Russia.

 Other cuisine. It's usually caviar and pierogi. However, what the average American means by pierogi (dumplings) is actually Polish; a Russian pierog (or an Ukrainian pyrih) is a pie, not a dumpling. The dumplings are called pelmeni (Russian), vareniki (Ukrainian) or kolduny (Belarusian).

 Bears. It's true that the bear is a common and well known animal in Russia, inasmuch as Russia having 60% of all Brown Bears in the world (and most of the remaining bears living in Northern Canada and Alaska). But they don't walk the streets of Russian cities Communism. The old  Atheism.  Russian language. In media, it is mostly portrayed with a  Russian names. In media, they are formed by slapping suffixes like "ov", "ski", "vich" on a bunch of common names like "Boris" or "Vladimir", not caring what those suffixes mean and in what order do various Russian names follow. The end result is something like "Boris Ivanski Vladimirvich", which doesn't sound right at all to a Russian St. Basil's Cathedral, that church with those colorful onion domes,  Everything is cold and miserable. Mostly true, except in summer when everyone is  An ornery attitude, stubborn resistance to change from outside. In See the great politics mess-up, dirty communists, and fake russian. usefulnotes/russia explains Russia and its predecessors in some depth.

Also see history of the ussr for the useful notes on this.

   Russia, an anthropomorphism of the country, from  Hotel Moscow from   Often invoked in the dialog between the Soviets in   The Durmstrang students and their headmaster Karkaroff in  Want to see every Russian/Soviet stereotype condescended into one rap? See  There is a lot of this in the first 2:17 of  Surprisingly, a complete aversion comes in one of   In Williams'   The nation of Khador in  The same goes for    Played straight to ridiculous levels the Moscow stage of  In Zangief's ending in  The second set of levels in the console versions of  The political simulation video game  The first three  Most everything in the fan community involving  The Heavy in  Tet42   The countries of Yuktobania, Erusea, and Estovakia from the  Comrades, how could we forget the  In  The racing team  In  The six-part finale of  Weebl's   The first part of the 20th Century Fox animated film  