 In a nutshell, this is the tendency to make historical domain characters look much better in movies/comics than they actually did (or are reported to have been by the sources of their time), and/or to fit their looks to the standard of the culture the work is made for.

Even when sources state that someone was attractive, this was of course according to the standards of their contemporaries. Certain characteristics, such as clear skin, shiny hair and a certain evenness of the face are universally liked, as they show health. The assessment of all the rest (body type, skin color, facial features) though, varies with the vogue of the time and place. While some of the clothing people used to wear is seen as gorgeous period dress, other fashion and hairstyle choices were also not exactly in line with current tastes.

A visual version of woolseyism. A historical figure regarded as attractive by contemporaries is depicted as attractive according to modern standards, preventing his/her good looks from becoming informed attractiveness.

medieval morons is as unrealistic as the beautiful elite, but the population of former times certainly lacked the comforts of modern technology and therefore, unless stated otherwise, it is safe to assume that the "hero" of one's story carried the marks of a harsh life without proper medicine and full of dangers and hard physical labour; and no toothpaste either - though it was only the advent of (cane) sugar that really led to bad teeth en masse.One would think the advent of photography might curb this practice, but in the end we all just love looking at attractive people too much to let little things like actual history keep us from imagining them as gorgeous. This trope is of course one of the oldest ones there is. When no one knows how the historical person really looked like, all bets are off.

There are several reasons for this trope. Actors and Actresses are in a profession where good looks are an asset and they preselect for that, rather like how Athletes are in better shape than the norm, lawyers and politicians are better at public speaking etc etc. So they group playing the part is already containing a higher portion of good looking people.

Moreover, actors take a lot better care of their appearance and have a whole staff dedicated 24/7 to making them look good and sprucing up their looks. This is far more than even the most self conscious dandy would have and certainly greater than the time and effort than what an average non-actor (which is what most of the real life individual they are portraying would be) would be able to or willing to spend.

Compare historical hero upgrade, beauty equals goodness, adaptational attractiveness, hollywood homely, and hotter and sexier.

