A sub-trope of hollywood history related to period dress. Due to factors ranging from budget to artistic license to downright they just didn't care, period costuming in shows and movies is just plain inaccurate half the time (although most of the time there are some minor mistakes). Sometimes it's justified by reality is unrealistic, sometimes not.

Sometimes costumes are mostly accurate, but from the wrong time. Sometimes the costumes are based more on the styles of the time the work was made than when they take place. Sometimes the costume designers will just make completely original outfits having almost nothing to do with the historical fashions. If you want to do a pimped-out dress, sometimes you just need to follow the general lines of the time, and then go wild.

This doesn't just include clothing and accessories, but also makeup and hair.

This is actually older than print. Consider a lot of paintings depicting Biblical or mythological scenes in medieval or Renaissance dress, or the fact that many Victorian reprints of Jane Austen's work had new illustrations depicting the characters in modest Victorian clothing rather than the comparatively skimpy light muslin dresses of the regency era.

Note that to count, it has to take place in our history, not a neo-historical future or a fantasy counterpart culture.

A super trope to gorgeous period dress.

Often overlaps with fashion dissonance, present day past (when the sets, props, and costuming are not historical at all), costume porn, and fashions never change. Some instances may be caused by newer than they think. Extreme cases can lead to wth, costuming department?.

Not to be confused with hollywood dress code or hollywood style.

 In  Picture comes from  Vivien Leigh's obviously 20th century makeup job as Scarlett O'Hara in   The   In the 1947 film version of  There was, at one point, an exhibit at the Los Angeles County Art Museum dedicated to Hollywood "historical" costuming, showing actual costumes from various productions. The three Cleopatra costumes (1917,  In  The plot of the Doris Day film   Ralphie's mother in "  Every woman in  Similarly, despite the accurate period costumes, the women in  Pick a  Pick any movie set in the 1600s or 1700s made up until the sixties and early seventies, and you'll mostly find dresses with very modest cleavage or no cleavage at all. The 17th-18th century fashions were  Mostly averted in  In the  In Roger Ebert's  You'd think the  Deliberately done in  The costume designer for  Parodied in  Disney's  When Thackeray was drawing the illustrations to his own novel,  In   Debatable how accurate most of the costuming in  The costuming in  On  Practically every male in  Some of Morgana's dresses on  A minor, intentional one in   Every girl on  Same goes for much of the ladies' clothing in   In  In theater more than a century or so older, there wasn't even an effort to be accurate in the costuming. You would see Cleopatra in petticoats and  Christine's frizzy  Some   Because the  Many depictions of Roman soldiers actually have them looking similar to  