The vague geographical expression of 'Germany' had been divided between many small nations, states, and nation-states ever since the final disintegration of the Holy Roman Empire in the 10th century. Most of these weren't really able to object and were barely able to contribute when the Great Powers (Mongolia, France, Austria, sometimes England/Britain, Sweden for a bit, later Russia) used the region as a battlefield. But in 1871, Germany was unified for the first time ever (though the holy roman empire was a basically German institution, it hadn't been meaningfully unified since the 10th century, though the Emperor was often fairly powerful). Now, as some historians stated, Germany had turned from a sponge (i.e. being soft and absorbing attacks) to a steel block. Its neighbors were pretty uncomfortable with that.

A bit larger than modern Germany, it incorporated a large part of modern Poland, Alsace-Lorraine (part of modern France), small slices of Lithuania and Denmark, and what is now the Kaliningrad exclave of the Russian Federation. All had German populations at a time, but in some places, primarily the Duchy of Posen (today Poznan in Poland) they were not a majority or "German in sentiment". be very careful when you talk about this. it may spontaneously combust, and not only with germans. Germans were kicked out of a lot of places after world war ii, but in Germany and these places it's considered polite not to mention this.Imperial Germany was a constitutional monarchy with an elected parliament, the Reichstag, and while in the United Kingdom around 50% of men failed to meet qualifications to vote, Imperial Germany had universal suffrage (though still only for men). Furthermore, Bismarck introduced an advanced welfare system for the sick, the old, and the infirm. And yet while it was technically governed by rule of law, its constitution was weak, and a great deal of influence was in the hands of generals, landowners, and industrialists. While parliament had the power to pass bills, all laws had to be approved by the Chancellor, who was not elected but personally appointed by the Emperor, and was responsible only to him. Thus the true power lay not with the people, but the Kaiser. Although not a full-on autocracy like tsarist russia, none of this added up to democracy.

The German Empire consisted of 4 Kingdoms (prussia, Bavaria, Saxony and Württemberg), 6 Grand Duchies, 5 Duchies, 7 Principalities, 3 Free Cities and 1 Imperial Territory (Alsace-Lorraine). Prussia was by far the most dominant state, as it made up 64% of the empire and the king of prussia was also the German Emperor.

Germany became a major world power at this time, because of its booming economy and powerful army. It produced a lot of leading artists and scientists, and began to dabble in overseas colonialism and to build up a navy to rival Britain.

The most famous statesman of the time was otto von bismarck. Bismarck engineered the unification of Germany through a lot of extremely ruthless and deceptive tricks, but he was so good at it that you can't help but cheer for the guy (though that may be disputable). He spend his later years juggling a complex alliance system in an attempt to keep the peace in Europe. Historians are divided as to whether he could have kept it up, but Kaiser Wilhelm II booted him out, so we may never know. He also made the famous prediction that the next war in europe would start over "some damned silly thing in the balkans". he was right.The other best-known characters of the period are, of course, the Kaisers. There were three. The first was Wilhelm I, a conservative old Prussian stalwart with magnificent whiskers who had fought in the Napoleonic Wars. His reign was dominated, politically, by Bismarck. Then came Friedrich III, for 99 days. A man of vague liberal sympathies (he quite admired Britain; he even married queen victoria's eldest daughter) he was struck down by cancer of the larynx and is a favourite of alternate history. Finally and notoriously, Wilhelm II. A notoriously temperamental man with what we would now diagnose as ADHD and some major childhood issues concerning his arm defect, he veered between liberal and conservative, strident militarism and sympathy for socialism, and later defeatism and dreams of victory - in other words, he was a picture of the rather-divided German nation as a whole in one man. He also had serious mommy issues involving his relationship with Britain: unlike his father, who had a healthy respect for Britain, Wilhelm was at once awestruck and envious, hating his mother but also wanting to be British. He admired British power but at the same time resented what he felt was Britain's attempts to keep Germany "in the shade." He fell out with Bismarck and dismissed him, and the rest of his reign was a succession of brief and unmemorable chancellors with himself as the real centre of gravity until during the war he was rendered irrelevant by the generals who formed a military Junta and ruled the country 'on his behalf'. Interestingly imperial japan, with a constitution and government modeled on Imperial Germany's, also fell prey to a much less stable and rational military junta in the 1930s which got a few tens of millions of people killed.

It's sometimes called "the Second Reich", but that term was used by the Nazis as part of their warped view of history. "Bismarckreich", "Kaiserreich" and "German Empire" are the usual terms for the state (not "Deutsches Reich": this was the official name, but it was also the official name of weimar germany and Nazi Germany, as well as the short way to refer to the Holy Roman Empire, so its too unspecific.).

it all ended very badly.

Important note: never confuse Imperial Germany with the Nazis. People with any knowledge of German history (well, okay, nerds, but it's pretty much the same around here) scream and writhe when they hear this. And this wiki is full of nerds.

Imperial Germany has relatively few fans today, but it's generally agreed that they deserve some credit for not being the Nazis - though they were still rather unpleasant, what with doing things like their genocide of the Herero people in German South-West Afrika. On the other hand there were only 100,000 of them and they were ethnic Afrikans, not Europeans, so that kind of thing was barely a negative mark against them by the standard of the day (especially given the cheery stuff that went on in Belgium's Kongo Free State, which may well have killed millions). winston churchill, writing in The Gathering Storm in 1948 concluded that Germany (and the world) would have been far better off keeping the Hohenzollerns under a true constitutional monarchy than the troubled republic of weimar germany, and a lot of facts seem to stand up for this. Wilhelm II, despite remaining a reactionary, intolerant, and somewhat bonkers gentleman till the end, strongly condemned the violent Nazi persecution of Jews (despite being viciously anti-Semitic himself), and he died in 1941 some months before Germany invaded the Soviet Union and began exterminating her civilians in particular and Jews+Gypsies+Homosexuals in general. Monarchism was strong in the weimar republic but today very few people support monarchism.

The Imperial flag of Black-White-Red is used as an alternative to their banned symbols by Neo-Nazis, but monarchists universally condemn this, and people who know anything about history point out that the Neo-Nazis are grasping on to a symbol they have only a minimal connection to in order to circumvent German hate-speech laws and try (and fail) to gain some measure of legitimacy.

See also kaiserreich, which is about Imperial Germany as it is depicted in fiction.

                      Margot Benary-Isbert's  In the 1978 sci-fi novel  Imperial Germany is the setting of many of the works of Heinrich Mann (the elder brother of Thomas Mann), in which he paints a rather unflattering image of its burgeois society as hypocritical, conceited, and spinelessly servile to authority. See  The Kaiserreich resorts to resurrecting the dead in a desperate attempt to win World War One in the novel  Many people in Victorian and Edwardian England apparently lived in mortal fear of Imperial Germany's rising power, because at least three novels exist on the subject of an invasion of England by the German Kaiserreich.  The subject matter of the absurdly over-the-top Alternate History Wank German book series  Robert Conroy has written two alternate history novels both dealing with an Imperial German invasion of the United States; the first,  William Patrick's sadly obscure novel  The 1916 satirical compilation of war propaganda cartoons    The Kaiser also appeared in a 1993 commercial for Tab Clear soda, in which he drinks Tab while planning military strategy with his generals, pops out his monocle into his glass in amazement at the taste, swallows it, coughs it up thereby re-arranging the army men on the map so that divisions are instantly moved into battle, flees in embarrassment aboard an enormous bratwurst-shaped zeppelin, flies all the way to the boglands of Oregon, pricks the balloon accidentally with his Pickelhaube helmet, falls into the mud and thereafter makes a career as the original film-captured Bigfoot, paid by the government as a tourist attraction. Now everything is clear...

 The Galactic Empire from  While not referred to by name, they are heavily implied to be the aggressive militaristic power seeking the treasure and advanced destructive weaponry of Laputa in  The  The Kaiser appears in an animated commercial to hawk tasty "Luftwaffles".

 While it is generally portrayed in  The Kaiserreich is depicted as the antagonists in the 1985 film version of  In  An armed skirmish erupts between the heroes of the film  The 1971 film  The novel and film adaptations of  Frequent adversaries in  They attempted to utilize an elaborate disintegrating ray as a secret weapon in  The protagonists must face off against their re-animated mecha zombies to steal a copy of the Kaiser's war plans in  The Kaiser is also taken prisoner at the end of  Their soldiers are attacked with a knife from behind and scalped by Tristan in  Represented by buffoonish German Colonel Manfred Von Holstein in  Were the comical villains of the British sex-comedy "Up The Front"

 Various silent First World War propaganda films portrayed them as melodramatic moustache-twiddling villains, such as in   "Fraulein Doktor", the code name of the main character of the 1969 Italian film of the same name, is a spy for the Kaiser whose considerable achievements include arranging the U-boat attack that killed Lord Kitchener, and seducing then murdering a female French scientist so that she successfully steals her formula for a new poison gas that burns peoples' skin off horribly, and which conventional gas masks fail to guard against.

 In the 1976 Shaw Brothers Hong Kong martial arts film "The Boxer Rebellion", their forces in China during the Rebellion (already infamous for their part in its brutal suppression in Real Life) receive something of a    The title character of the biopic  The movie adaptation of  Kaiser Wilhelm II appeared as a zombie in a  Also appearing in  In   Represented in the  The British historical miniseries  They are frequently prominent antagonists in  One of the powers involved in outer space colonization in the RPG " The RPG in development "Kaiser's Gate" involves a portal to another dimension that contains living dragons being opened by the 1908 Tunguska Event, and these dragons being utilized by the Kaiser's army as a secret "wunderwaffe".

 The now discontinued "Baron Von Redberry" cereal, the mascot of which was the titular moustachioed Baron in his red biplane, who had an ongoing competition with rival British air ace Sir Grapefellow about whose breakfast cereal was superior.

 California-based death metal band Minenwerfer's music is concerned primarily with the First World War from their perspective.

 Is the subject of Ammer and Einheit's "historical sound recording opera"/electronic song series "Kaiser Wilhelm Overdrive," from the album "Deutscher Krieger."

 The  Several individual songs by the satanic black death metal band Endstille, including "Vorwarts Sturmangriff II," "No Heaven Over Germany", "1914" and "Verfuhrer" (German for "seducer"). The cover for the album "Verfuhrer" is a French war propaganda cartoon depicting the Kaiser with his sleeves rolled up, wearing a bloody apron and wielding a blood-soaked machete.

