Under hollywood history, all historical North/Central/South American nations are lumped into one exotic and often barbaric people: the Mayincatec, featuring aspects of the Maya, Inca and the Aztecs, plus many others. It's a tossed salad of exciting bits from all their histories, with a topping of myth and fiction. And the dressing is blood.

     Lots of priests, religion and monstrous gods.

  Feathered headdresses, clubs studded with chunks of obsidian, loincloths.

 Corn harvests, sun worship.

  Ornate and colorful decorations, geometric patterns. Intricate and scary carvings.

 Jungle settings and an abundance of wildlife: snakes, spiders,  A drug culture — coca and hallucinogens.

 Panpipes, and bands of panpipers.

 Conquistadors often feature as conquerors of the Mayincatec.

 Desiccated bodies in ceremonial outfits: unwrapped mummies.

 Gold,  Sometimes hidden advanced technology and/or links to  Giant line drawings out in the desert, like the Nazca Lines.

 The Long Count Calendar, which has 394-year  Sometimes, when the producers do the research, an extremely sophisticated grasp of astronomy.

 If they use a specific god, it'll most likely be Quetzalcoatl, the Plumed Serpent. Since they'll probably know nothing beyond his name, they'll likely show human sacrifice to him, although he was perhaps the only god in many pantheons who didn't ask for it.

Generally the Mayincatec are more likely to be the villains than the heroes (unless there are conquistadors around). They are prone to historical villain upgrade. Some alternate history stories have them survive to the modern day, resulting in a modern mayincatec empire.

In real life, the Mayas, Incas, and Aztecs were all different; their actual history is interesting and diverges from the trope quite a bit. However, keep in mind that the trope is frequently also valid in modern Latin America.

Please see pre-columbian civilizations, native american mythology and aztec mythology.

See Also: hollywood history and very loosely based on a true story. Compare spexico and banana republic, for when this happens to modern Hispanic countries. Also compare injun country for composite versions of Native American cultures from North America. The Western equivalent is ancient grome.

