Medieval people are morons.

Whenever you see medieval people in fiction, particularly peasants, they will always be depicted as stupid, small-minded, xenophobic, savage but cowardly, superstitious, gullible, and primitive - the Old World equivalent of stereotypical American rednecks. And of course, all men treat all women like crap all the time.

Thus, time travelers are advised to avoid the middle ages at all costs, lest they be burned as witches.

This trope was popularized by the Enlightenment due to the "medieval stasis" trope, their perception on the world after rome as a post-apocalyptic, war-ridden, anti-intellectual dystopia, and how they saw themselves as paragons of progress recovering the glory of the classical world. of course, reality is more complex than that. Not only did Enlightenment thinkers harbor their own misconceptions and prejudices (some of them far worse than anything previously believed), but medieval people were just as intelligent on average as any other representative person living in any other period of history; they simply did not have the accumulated experience and knowledge that people take for granted when their world includes things like universal education and literacy, plus extensive trade and travel infrastructure connecting them to most other parts of the known world. Basically, unless you were very special or belonged to an organisation with some of these features, you had to spend most of your time surviving in a way that didn't require these things.

Occasionally people living in another widely disliked time will get this depiction. Nineteenth-century frontier America and the 1950s have long been favorite targets, and increasingly the 1970s and '80s have been getting this too (when it comes to more contemporary issues such as homophobia).

Compare: humans are morons.

 Largely averted in      The peasants from the movie      Subverted in the  Poul Anderson further subverted this trope in his short story "The Man Who Came Early", in which the eponymous man  Subverted in the book  Averted in George Martin's  Taking place as it does in a quasi-medieval mishmash of an era,  In  In the  Averted in Beatrice Small's  Played straight and subverted in the original  Discussed at one point in  Subverted in the  This trope is present in  Similarly present in   The Orc and Human builder units in  During the " Averting this trope is one of the major themes in   Parodied in  Nutritional deficiencies in the general population could lead to other forms of mental retardation and physical disability, especially during times of famine and hitting pregnant women (and their unborn children) in particular; for example, during the Middle Ages in Europe, there was an epidemic of cretinism in parts of the Swiss Alps due to iodine deficiency, and the effects of both lead and alcohol poisoning were unknown at the time. All this could possibly have led to substantially lowered IQ and developmental disabilities.

 Leadership and occupation in medieval societies were much more dependent on random factors, like what family they were born into. In today's industrialized countries, people are generally are able to seek qualifications and apply for jobs they are talented in and that follow their interests. Therefore, in the everyday working world, the people you run into with skilled positions are more likely to be competent and skilled.

 In reality, this trope was largely averted in real life.

