The wars between napoleon bonaparte and various states in Europe in the early nineteenth century. Can be summed up as "france and whoever they'd conquered at the time vs. everybody else in Europe." The early years overlap somewhat with the latest wars of the french revolution. Known before 1914 as "The Great War" before that global conflict usurped the title.

                                                        A similar, if not greater, proportion of the Royal Navy was ethnically-Irish as well - not to mention Arthur Wellesley, one of Britain's greatest generals of this period.

                                                                                        Napoleon's official army bulletins. There is a good reason why the expression "to lie like a bulletin" entered the French language under his reign.

  Lord Byron's  The Polish national epic  Tolstoy's novel   Theodor Fontane's first novel,  The  The         Abel Gance's massive silent movie       The    Lauren Willig's    Norwegian playwright   Over the last decade, there have been a great number of French graphic novels centred on Napoleon. Some stick to reality and attempt to give a colourful account of Napoleon's life... others (like   Francisco Goya's paintings of the Second and Third of May 1808 in Madrid, the first showing the Madrilenes fighting Napoleon's Mameluks of the Guard in the streets, the latter the shooting by French firing squad of a group of Spanish rebels. Also Goya's sometimes spine-chilling series of prints,  The Napoleonic Wars were commemorated in a number of monuments all over Europe, notably the Column of the Grande Armée (on the place Vendôme), the Arc de Triomphe and the smaller Arc de Triomphe du Carroussel in Paris, Nelson's Column on Trafalgar Square in London, the cast-iron  Beethoven originally wanted to dedicate his Third Symphony to Napoleon Bonaparte, but changed his mind when he learned that he was making himself an emperor. In 1809 he wrote a march for the Austrian  Tchaikovsky's  Lots of participants wrote memoirs and histories afterwards. Thanks to the advances of public education, these included several junior officers and even some NCOs and privates. Of course,  More books have been written about Napoleon than about anyone else in history.

 Two generals who fought in the Napoleonic Wars had a huge influence on military theory in the subsequent centuries, Antoine de Jomini and Carl von Clausewitz, the latter the author of  The first proper wargames were developed in Germany during the Napoleonic wars as educational aids for officers.

  One of Avalon Hill's first board wargames, in the early 1960's, was - you guessed it - "Waterloo", based on the Hundred Days campaign. The  On a related note, the battle of Waterloo/La Belle Alliance is especially well-documented in part because William Siborne, who made dioramas of the battle with miniature soldiers, got every surviving participating officer he could get his hands on to write down what they had done and seen there.

    