This explanation is by no means meant to be totally inclusive of everything that defines Nazi Germany, but just to give an overview of what it is and the reasons it's important here on tv tropes (mainly because of godwin's law).

Nazi Germany is the name commonly used to refer to the German nation when it was ruled by adolf hitler in the years 1933-1945, also known as the Third Reich. (the First being the holy roman empire, and the Second being imperial germany under the Prussian Hohenzollern dynasty). The Nazis did not actually change the official name of the country until 1942; for ten of their twelve years in power, it remained simply Deutsches Reich (literally, "German Realm"), as it had been since 1871. In 1942, it was officially renamed Großdeutsches Reich (literally, "Greater German Realm"), to reflect their large territorial gains and the "unification" of the German-speaking lands, and to hark back to the Großdeutsche Lösung ("Greater German Solution") to the "german question". Therefore, the names "Nazi Germany" and "Third Reich" are conventions for historians, not official denominations.

During this time, Germany's policies were dominated by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party. The party and the country it ruled are best remembered for being fanatically racist (even by the standards of the 1930s, their racism was off the charts). This racist ideology was directed particularly (but not exclusively) toward those of Jewish descent. Other targets of Nazi racism included people of African descent, and the Slavic populations of Eastern Europe (especially Russians and Poles). The ultimate goal of the Nazis was the complete extermination of these "inferior races"; in the case of Eastern Europe, the plan was to replace them with German settlers. Though this is by no means the only policy adopted by Nazi Germany, it was so prominent that it has become one of their defining characteristics. The belief in the superiority of what Hitler called the Aryan race would ultimately culminate in the holocaust — the deliberate, industrialized mass murder of millions of ethnic minorities, dissenters, political opponents of nazism (especially communists), social "undesirables" and "inferior races" as defined by the nazi party; a period of horror and monstrosity that would claim the lives of at least eleven million people, six million of which were Jews, and would give rise to the word "genocide."

Nazi Germany also pursued aggressive territorial expansion. Hitler believed that Nazi Germany and the Aryan race should be the rightful rulers over not just all the German-speaking peoples, or even the Germanic states, but all of Europe. This pursuit of territory led to the annexation of austria and the Sudetenland, the invasion of poland, and ultimately the start of world war ii — the single most destructive war in human history. This war claimed the lives of an additional 50 or 60 million people, the majority of whom were civilians killed by the Nazi German armed forces.

The extent of the Nazis' desire for conquest is subject to some alternative character interpretation, as certain historians - most infamously A.J.P. Taylor - assert that Hitler's foreign policy was opportunistic and the incompetence of his enemies was as responsible for German gains and the war as himself, while others even believe that Hitler had a Stufenplan (step-by-step plan) for total world domination that would have ended in a global showdown, with the United States on one side and Greater Germany, Italy, Japan and the british empire on the other.... give or take one or two add ons or eliminations from the latter list. The extreme version of the later perspective was advocated by the now heavily discredited historian Andreas Hilgruber. Since Hilgruber first proposed it in the 1960s, the Stufenplan belief has largely died down, although Taylor's assertions that the annexations of Austria and Czechoslovakia were as much to do with diplomatic blunders as Nazi foreign policy has also failed to convince the mainstream.

Because of Nazi Germany's involvement in World War II and the unambiguous "evil-ness" of their racial policies, they make convenient enemies in fiction and video games. Unfortunately, this has also resulted in people (at both ends of the political spectrum) using the term "nazi" as an insult towards anyone with whom they may disagree. This practice is strongly discouraged in intelligent debate and is now considered a sign that the name-caller has no actual argument for their case. It's also important to note that just because the Nazis did something doesn't mean that thing is inherently evil purely on account of that association. For example, the Nazis built the first modern highway network (the autobahn), and it's safe to say that highways are not evil. probably.

While there are literally thousands of books and other sources of information on Nazi Germany and the historical consequences, here are some brief points of interest:

Nazi Germany was heavily into "racial purity", believing in the superiority of the Aryan race, despite that:

 "Aryan" was a synonym for Indo-Europeans, who originated from just over the Caspian Sea, though today the term is usually used in reference to the specific group (Indo-Aryans or Indo-Iranians) who inhabit parts of India and most of Iran (which means "home of the Aryans"). The Nazis believed that the Aryans (Indo-Europeans) were Nordics whose homeland was Iceland or somewhere else in Northern Europe, although some  Hitler, despite having blue eyes, wasn't "Aryan" in the slightest. The ideal body image for Germans was supposed to be tall and athletic with blue eyes and blond hair. Ironically, perhaps the three most enthusiastic proponents of "Aryan" racial superiority were Adolf Hitler (of medium height and with dark brown, almost black hair), Heinrich Himmler (tall and stick-like thin, thinning black hair, hazel eyes, glasses) and Joseph Goebbels (very short, black-haired, brown eyes and had a limp). (There was a joke about the Aryan being blonde like Hitler, slim like Goering, and tall like Goebbels.) The only well-known Nazi who actually lived up to the ideal was Reinhard Heydrich, who was super tall, had platinum blond hair, blue eyes, was a champion athlete and a renowned violinist. However, according to Himmler's doctor, Felix Kersten, Some of the lesser-known facts on the place:

 It was the world's first country to run regular TV services.

 It was the first country to engage in a major anti-smoking campaign.

 It was the first country to develop turbojet aircrafts.

 It was the first country to develop ballistic missiles and use them on enemy cities.

 It was the first country to put an object in space, with a V-2 launch in 1942.

 As mentioned before, it was the first country to develop an interstate highway system.

 Hitler, mass butcher of human beings that he was, was a  The Nazis, however, didn't give vegetarian organizations exemption from banning, though they did introduce very tough anti-cruelty to animals laws by the standards of the time, with the implications that Jews were naturally cruel to animals The Nazis also enacted conservation laws to preserve German forests.

 While homosexuality and interracial relationships were strictly outlawed, the attitude towards straight sex between "Aryans" was quite liberal in the Third Reich, and Aryans were encouraged to have lots of sex and have many children, within marriages or not. Women received welfare from the state to support them if needed, or in rare cases, the children were seized by the SS and raised by them if proven to be genetically Aryan (The "Lebensborn" project). Nude bathing was legalized in 1942. This may have been less about liberated morals (they did ban contraception and abortion for Aryans, except in cases of euthanasia) and more about filling the vast swaths of eastern Europe the Nazis intended to capture and depopulate. The Nazis preached "Aryan" fertility and their idea of the woman's place leaned heavily towards " Heinrich Himmler ran the "Lebensborn" program, which was a series of houses created to produce more Nordic blood in the overall German population. If the wife of an SS soldier, who was required to be a non-Jewish Nordic, needed help raising their children, she would receive help at these houses. Nordic women could also put their children up for adoption here, providing the child was pure as well. And single women who wanted children of their own could either adopt or get impregnated by one of those strapping young SS men at a Lebensborn house.

 Its  It actually banned Gothic (Blackletter) writing in 1941 when they were declared to be "Jewish letters," in spite of its  The SS uniform, which serves as  The display of Nazi Germany as " The Nazis enacted draconian gun control laws. To be precise about Nazi gun control:

 The 1936 Olympics were the first to feature the Olympic torch relay carrying the Olympic flame from Olympia, Greece to the host city (in this case Berlin).

 There was very little to any rationing in the first half of the war. You know how Americans had victory gardens, were encouraged to recycle everything (scrap metal, kitchen grease, etc)? Brits rationed everything, from gasoline to food? Yeah, Germany had none of that up until Stalingrad. To the average German, it wasn't obvious there was even a war on. They lived in  It is often brought up that "socialist" was in the Nazi Party's full name. In truth, this gets complicated. The full name of the Party - "National Socialist German Workers' Party" - would have sounded to a German living in the 1920s and 30s something like "Democratic Republican Liberal Conservative Party" would sound to an American living today. "National" and "German" were right-wing conservative catchphrases (the main conservative party at the time was called the German National Party), and "Socialist" and "Workers" were of course left-wing catchphrases. The name was meant to sound vague and all-embracing, to attract as wide an audience as possible. This reflected the Nazis' nationalist ideology: they always insisted that they were the party of ALL Germans, and opposed democracy for being "divisive". The one constant element in Nazi ideology and practice was genocidal racism and brutal dictatorship, which is what they are remembered for. On most other issues - especially economics - they were actually quite hazy and divided. They had both "left-wing" and "right-wing" factions on economic matters, with the "left" (led by Ernst Rohm, his SA, and Goebbels) advocating nationalization of industry, while the "right" (led by Himmler, the SS, and Schacht) advocated an alliance with the wealthy capitalists and big business, with Hitler making a pretext at being willfully aloof. At least until it became clear how important the alliances with Germany's  Despite the popular culture image of rural conservatism based on the rhetoric of "blood and soil" and Heinrich Himmler's career as a farmer, the core of the National Socialist political machinery was  There were at least two distinctive periods in the 12 years of the  Much like with the Soviet Union and East Germany, there were forbidden political jokes which poked fun at the regime. Here are some:

it all ended very, very badly. Way, way, way too big to be an elephant in the living room. For a trope-centric discussion, see those wacky nazis, godwin's law, godwin's law of time travel (two different tropes), ghostapo and stupid jetpack hitler. For a full index of tropes associated with Nazi Germany, see reichstropen.

If you want to read more about the regime, the most acclaimed modern comprehensive survey of its era is  by Richard J. Evans which includes the books, The Coming of the Third Reich, The Third Reich in Power and The Third Reich at War, which are also available in audiobook at Audible.com. Other recommended books are the Hitler duology by Ian Kershaw, Hitler: A Study in Tyranny and Hitler & Stalin: Parallel Lives by Alan Bullock, The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich by William L. Shirer (who was Creator/CBS's radio correspondent until 1941), The Third Reich: A New History by Michael Burleigh, and The Hitler State by Martin Broszat.

