The days when gruff, thickbrowed club-wielding cavemen and sexy cavewomen in body-baring fur teddies roamed the earth alongside dinosaurs. Most humans were of low intelligence and

communicated primarily in grunts, but this didn't stop them from inventing a sophisticated system of bamboo technology, most of which incorporated rocks, sinews, and small anthropomorphic dinosaurs who really didn't seem to mind the fact that they'd been locked under a counter and forced to serve as a primitive garbage disposal for the vast majority of their waking lives. ("it's a living", after all...)

Real "cavemen" were quite different — although of course, it entirely depends what point in prehistory you're focusing on. They (at least in the last 100,000 years or so) were as intelligent as modern humans and had complex language. They used bows, spears, slings, and knives as well as clubs. They lived in tents or huts, sometimes structures built of mammoth bones, and maybe the mouths of caves but never deep inside. Most prejudices about cavemen were originally applied to Australian Aborigines, pygmies, Native Americans, and black people.

and there were no dinosaurs living alongside them, no matter what jack chick wants you to think (well, except for the birds).

If any genuine attempt is made to explore what prehistoric cultures might have been like, it could be considered to fall into the category of xenofiction.

See prehistoria for a video game level or setting set here.

         One of the episodes of   The 1950's comic book  Brazilian comic   "Clan of the Care Bear" in  The  The 1940 movie     Replace dinosaurs with pyramid-building Egyptians and you get  The opening scenes of  This era was featured in     The  The  The    The first story  "Sabre Tooth" and "Mammoth Journey", the last two episodes of  The finale of the re-imagined  Played absolutely straight in the "search for the Quantasaurus Rex" arc of  The syndicated comic strip  Another comic strip example: Johnny Hart's  Gary Larson occasionally depicted dinosaurs and cavemen together in   This is the setting for  Appears in    The  The world of Jund in the   The   In an episode of  The   In one episode of   The  In the 