Politically Correct History is when shows set in the past change that past to fit the cultural norms of the time in which the show is filmed — or the prejudices of those currently in power. Originally, this manifested itself through making the main characters surprisingly "enlightened" (and thus more sympathetic to a modern audience). An example of a more recent development is extras being cast without regard to race, even in historical situations where it doesn't make sense.

Conversely, people may judge the entire past by one particular era. Many people assume that all of history until the sixties was as straitlaced as the victorian era, or else rife with racism and the like, which causes them to assume that historically accurate characters and situations are Politically Correct History. For example, black cowboys in recent depictions of the Old West are not a race lift, inasmuch as many freedmen did go west; it's their absence from 1930s-50s cowboy movies that was politically correct for that era. And there are plenty of other examples of popular culture conditioning us to expect less-than-enlightened behavior from our ancestors.

This is older than feudalism. Even the Ancient Romans indulged in politically correct history, to the point that (given the dearth of primary sources) nobody can be completely sure if any of the Roman historians we know told the truth about anything.

Naturally, historical accuracy should not be expected for works that clearly take place in the theme park version of their genre: if your story already concerns king arthur and robin hood teaming up to fight a humongous mecha, it may be to the story's detriment to depict realistic social and race relations. Racism is a heavy-thinking topic, and would likely just get in the way of the entertainment goals of the production. The true litmus test is how seriously the work appears to take itself. The more so, the less excuse there is for whitewashing.

Note that political correctness has not always been merely an accusation leveled against the political left by the political right. The term may be used to describe something "corrected" to any political dogma. What is politically correct to one group might be highly offensive to another. One of the most extreme historical examples is found in a parenting book written in 1913. The writer claimed that the Puritan gentlewoman Grace Mildmay advocated beating children black and blue to cure them of lying and other faults; he even quoted her on the subject at length. But he made it all up. Not only is the quote not found in her papers, she was actually a strong opponent of physical discipline. Nevertheless, readers lapped the fake quote up because it supported their view of child-raising. Even now, this manufactured quote can be found in modern books promoting physical discipline of children.

This is an interesting trope in that it will anger people at both ends of the Western political spectrum. People on the right will be annoyed at what seems to them like political correctness gone mad. People on the left, however, might be absolutely livid, believing that the work is being sardonic or mocking, or even that it's trying to silence social criticism with a rose tinted narrative ("See, things weren't all that bad back then, so quit whining").

What's especially frustrating about this trope is the "all-or-nothing" stance its practitioners implicitly take toward historiography. To them, either the past had to be exactly like the present or it is completely incompatible with the modern era. Very rarely do we see anything in between. It would be more reasonable show the past as what it really was. On the subject of race, for example, you could show nonwhite characters comfortably integrated into at least some circles of white society but disproportionately absent from the upper echelons. Or you could show white characters unwilling to actively associate with other races but still free of overt racial bigotry.

The reverse of this gets you variations of the dung ages. Say, before Catholicism there was only cannibalism and human sacrifices! Or, before socialism there was only endless poverty and slavery! Or, before feminism the whole of human history consisted of women in the kitchen and men beating them with horsewhips! Just as easy, cheap, and tempting for a writer on board as a straight use.

The direct inversion of this trope is society marches on. This occurs when a work tries to predict the future, possibly catching relatively minor societal details like the expanding prevalence of the computer, but missing things like the Civil Rights Movement or increased gender equality. Works like this depict a world where digital technology is everywhere, but schools are still segregated and women aren't expected to do much except push the right buttons for the auto-oven to make dinner for when her husband comes home.

See also popular history, fair for its day, videogame historical revisionism, eternal sexual freedom, aluminum christmas trees, we all live in america, america wins the war, black vikings, historical hero upgrade, historical villain upgrade, and historical villain downgrade.

Contrast deliberate values dissonance.

Compare fractured fairy tale, where this is usually played for laughs.

For other uses of the term politically correct, see political correctness gone mad.

