

Where Cyberpunk is dystopian and a darker and edgier product of disillusionment with Utopian science fiction, Post-Cyberpunk is positive yet more realistic than both Cyberpunk and utopian sci-fi. Where cyberpunk is anti-corporate and anti-government, Post-Cyberpunk is willing to give both parties redeeming features. Where Cyberpunk portrays the future as a crapsack world, Post-Cyberpunk posits society will probably be about the same, just with cooler gadgets. Where Cyberpunk is futuristic, forward thinking and on the cutting edge...so is Post-Cyberpunk.

Post-Cyberpunk is the reaction to the darkness-induced audience apathy of Cyberpunk. Of course, Postcyberpunk involves reconstruction of concepts Cyberpunk deconstructed, or deconstruction of cyberpunk tropes (such as the dystopia). The Cyberpunk genre itself was meant as a reaction to utopian fiction popular in the 1940s and 1950s while exploring technology's possibility for abuse twenty minutes into the future (tech from Star Trek will just result in Brave New World), but as the genre itself got so darker and edgier to the point of being just as unrealistic, it was predictable that Cyberpunk itself would get a deconstruction.

What the old and new Cyberpunk genres share is a detailed immersion in societies enmeshed with technology. They explore the emergent possibilities of connectivity and technological change. What Post-cyber punk has that separates it from pure-Cyperpunk works, is an emphasis on positive socialization. In Lawrence Person's  he describes typical Post-Cyberpunk protagonists as "anchored in their society rather than adrift in it. They have careers, friends, obligations, responsibilities, and all the trappings of an 'ordinary' life." For this reason, character goals also differed characteristically, "Cyberpunk characters frequently seek to topple or exploit corrupt social orders. Postcyberpunk characters tend to seek ways to live in, or even strengthen, an existing social order, or help construct a better one." In other words, there is a notable absence of 'punk' elements as found in most other punk punk genres. And in recent years several works that rely heavily on the post-cyberpunk conventions and tropes and have a strong post-cyberpunk atmosphere managed to drop most of the 'cyber' aspects as well. (see Inception and Mirror's Edge as examples.) Just like it's mentioned in the cyberpunk article, Post-Cyberpunk heavily deals with Social sci-fi in accordance with asimov's three kinds of science fiction, but its portrayal of technology is more neutral than Cyberpunk's, and sometimes it's downright positive. While Cyberpunk focused on technology going beyond our control and dooming us all, Post-Cyberpunk states that HUMANS cause technology to go awry, and that responsible use of technology could actually bring us to a new age. Simply put, Post-Cyberpunk basically reigns in Cyberpunk's excess and tries to give us a more open vision of the future.

Aside from this main difference, the two sister-genres share many themes, tropes and story elements to the point that many question the legitimacy of this genre as separate from cyber punk, and contend that Post-Cyberpunk is simply Cyberpunk expanded beyond its base and taken further logically. Purists, however, see a definite difference.

The Post-9/11 atmosphere of 21st Century America also saw a marked decrease in heroes who were decidedly anti-establishment. Also, of note that in the modern world, as opposed to the eighties, it is far more difficult (bordering on impossibility) to operate anonymously or in the shadows outside of the system (the "Punk" aspect of Cyberpunk) or under dual/false identities. The increase of security profiling, monitoring, hidden surveillance and current forensics technology is making it less and less possible to move around without leaving fingerprints or footprints of some type, digital or otherwise. And today, there is now the understanding that there is no anonymity or privacy on the internet.

Basically, if you have a crapsack world modelled on 1984 and/or japanese zaibatsu where (most critically) technology is a method by which the power elite control the people, and the protagonists are entirely against said society, you have traditional cyber punk. If, however, you have a world that has some redeeming features, is not controlled by the State and/or mega corp., technology isn't screwing everything up, and the protagonists are trying to fix social problems from within rather than rebelling against society from without, you have Post-cyber punk. Of course, there is plenty of overlap.

Compare cyberpunk, punk punk and postsomethingism. See cyberpunk tropes for tropes found in post cyber punk works and shared with its cousin cyber punk.

