Thus goes the apparent thought process of using the Public Domain Artifact — a famous, usually completely mythical, conveniently uncopyrighted, yet instantaneously recognizable item from the realms of history, literature, or legend (if not all three).

This is not to say that such items can't be included in a perfectly entertaining and even unique plot, but its variations certainly do crop up frequently, in almost every genre — comedy, drama, science fiction, fantasy — and pretty much every culture from East to West. Some cultures have favorite items to use (Holy Grail for the West, for instance, the Ame-No-Murakumo for Japan, etc.). However, with increasing globalization and influence of international works on the domestic and vice versa, this has been somewhat diluted in recent years, with shows like, say, Neon Genesis Evangelion featuring the Lance of Longinus.

It can be a weapon, a macguffin, or hell, maybe both if it's a mystical doomsday device. Sometimes the trope crops up as imported alien phlebotinum (seen often, for example, in Stargate SG-1), sometimes it's a mystical object, and occasionally it's both. Sometimes startling revelations are to be had about the object, sometimes it's straight out of the legends, heck, maybe it's even reconstructed from the original's spare parts. Regardless of its distinguishing features in the story, though, what makes a Public Domain Artifact worthy of the name is its basis on stories of the past — the collective myths of man, with all their familiar symbols.

There's honestly no telling how long this one has been around; while nowadays it's often used to avoid copyright infringement, it's been around much longer than the patent office. Many ancient authors (and many moderns, as well) used these to evoke the mythos attached to them. If an author puts a supposedly mythical sword in their work, it needs to be supported, but when you hear "Excalibur," it doesn't take any explanation to understand how important it is. See the example of Durandal below, Sword of Hector... Then Roland... Then reforged for Ogier the Dane. Later authors name-dropped former heroes to make their mystical artifacts even mystical-er, making this older than feudalism.

In a series set in another world, these may appear, but under different names. Often, entire sets of artifacts will be used, to make the characters feel like they're "getting" somewhere.

There's about a one-in-three chance that hitler either had it or was searching for it. As the book Angels of Light and Darkness put it, "If Hitler had half of what they say he had, he would have won the war."

In modern series, many of these items are made of low-grade unobtainium, especially if magic is down-played or completely absent.

If weapons, they are almost certainly named weapons and stock weapon names. See also stock unsolved mysteries.

For Crystal Skulls see crystal skull. May be related to alternate landmark history.

