The original people's republic of tyranny, China played a fair few roles as the big bad during part of The cold war, even after the Sino-Soviet Split nearly resulted in war betwixt the two Communist Great Powers. Since 1993, the portrayal of the People's Republic has tended to move towards that of an international anti-hero, of the lawful neutral or lawful evil sort—although given values dissonance, it sometimes could qualify as chaotic neutral instead.

Red China became a recurrent villain in cold war literature; not as common as the soviet union, but definitely there. Using China instead of Russia allowed writers to work in some of the traditional mystique that Oriental culture seemed (to them) to have always been steeped in. It probably is no exaggeration to say that Red China was the Cold War-era successor to WWII's imperial japan in villain roles, in the same way that the soviet union was the successor to those wacky nazis.

The portrayal of Communist China can be roughly divided into two periods:

Red and Nasty (1949 to c.1979)fu manchu meets dirty communists (or yellow peril meets red scare), to a very large extent. The Chinese are sneaky and crafty, like to brainwash people (the term was invented in China) and generally trying to subvert Western freedom. Will team up with the USSR at times.

The main cause of this was the korean war - while the Soviets were not (obviously) attacking UN forces, which included the US and the UK, the Chinese most certainly were.

Red and Rich (c.1979 onward)Not so much dirty communists here, although you will get renegade chinese. China becomes a rich, well-developed country, but still prone to torture and general international shadiness, although not on pre-79 levels. Many things are still banned in china, though usually available through bootlegged media.

Why 1979, you may ask? Though China did start to open to the world in 1972 after richard nixon visited China, mao zedong had a stranglehold on power until his death in 1976, and supported the most radical politics in China. Immediately after he died, those radical elements were arrested, and Deng Xiaoping made a grab for control of the Party. The economic reforms he implemented in 1978 began to turn China from a sclerotic command economy into an economic powerhouse as foreign investment was allowed in ever-larger areas and ever-greater sections of the banking sector were freed up to invest in things that were actually profitable, as opposed to things the government thought the country 'should' have. Additionally, the United States formally established diplomatic relations with China that year - up to that point, the US had recognized the Guomindang government on Taiwan.

Also notice that since China has lately acquired a huge potential as a consumer market for Western media, it makes almost no business sense to offend the Chinese censors and/or audience by casting China as the villain.

Sometimes, Red china takes over the world.

Incidentally, red is also a traditional color of china, predating Marxism. For more historical background on Red China, see the analysis page. The original founding story of  In one of their adventures,  Played with in  The mind-boggling weirdness that is the original version of    The first version of  The film   The title antagonist of  In the       One of the factions you can work for in  Receive a cursory mention in   China is one of the foreign powers in       The second half of  Most of the films by independent director Jia Zhangke deal with life in China since the beginning of the Red and Rich period:

   