The time of simplicity, sly rebellion, and napoleon bonaparte.

Home of jane austen and charlotte brontë heroines who assert their inner strength and independence by marrying dark, obscenely rich mercurial men. Said rich men usually wear long frock coats, tight pants, wispy hair with sideburns and live in big stone mansions which take up nearly half the planet. Women wear groman inspired muslin gowns, which are popular from France, with high waistlines which they can actually breathe in (but which tend to look like nightgowns or maternity gear in the hands of a poor costume designer).

In a strict historical sense, the "Regency era" only encompassed the years 1811 through 1820, during which time the future King George IV held the title of Prince Regent due to his father, George III's, growing mental instability. In its broader literary sense, the term can be used to describe any period in British history ranging roughly from the end of the Seven Years War (known to the Americans as the French and Indian War) to the coronation of Queen Victoria (approx. 1760-1840).

During the time of George III, the regency and the reign of George IV, public morals were a lot looser than in the Victorian age. Many famous men openly had mistresses and/or visited brothels. For instance, George IV's mistresses—note the plural—were openly living in Whitehall Palace in adjacent rooms to his actual wife. And George III's third son William, later William IV, lived with an actress for twenty years and fathered 10 children with her, and from whom much of the British upper crust is descended (including a rather lowly fellow named david cameron). It wasn't until twenty years after William IV's death that his liaison was considered shocking enough to be censored. Fortunes were won and lost at cards, dice and the races. Duels were fought and bare-knuckle boxing was at its height with champions like Belcher, Gull and Cribb.

The Regency is also the era in which the Industrial Revolution got into full swing, so expect a fair number of industrial parvenus to show up. Also new is modern men's fashion—the idea that a man's clothes should be dark, sober, elegant, and tasteful rather than merely expensive comes from the Prince Regent's favourite dandy, Beau Brummell. Or to put it simply: this is where the granddaddy of the three-piece suit was born.

A quote whose origin has been lost describes a tomcat as being a Regency Gentleman on the grounds that he roisters all night, enjoys rollicking love-affairs and bare-knuckle fighting but always looks elegant.

A nostalgia filter during the late Victorian period, particularly with the gay nineties and the edwardian era.

     The later years of     Speaking of Regency England in the broad literary sense, this also encompasses  Also in the broad literary sense,   Two entire genres of  Susanna Clarke's   The seaminess of the period is represented in the art of Thomas Rowlandson whose watercolours and cartoons range from picturesque to quaint to ribald to pornographic.

    The various  Both the  The  The    In     The last 