From 1756-1763 this was one of the most important wars in history and the largest of the classical eighteenth century style power struggles. It was in a way a bipolar war, consisting of the struggle between various families (and the realms they ruled) for control of Central Europe and the struggle between Britain and France for control of overseas markets and colonies. Its result led to the founding of the british empire and a secessionist British state that would, two centuries later, become more populous and richer than her (via the american revolution). On the other hand, it also marked the end of the first French Colonial Empire overseas and arguably caused her to turn inward to Europe again during the Revolutionary and Napoleonic wars. Most notably, the war marked the ascent of Prussia to Great Power status when she finally managed to conquer just enough territory (from the Austrian Habsburgs) to be able to put up a decent fight against the other Great Powers.

There was fighting in several theaters including Central Europe, North America, and India. (Minor theaters included Brazil, the Caribbean, West Africa, and the Philippines.) Given the nicely global spread of the fighting this has been posited as the first 'world' war, though why exactly it should get this designation when the War of the Austrian Succession, War of the Spanish Succession, or various Anglo-French colonial spats don't isn't clear. The way all three major theatres were seeing action at the same time is a biggie, though.

Often referred to in the US as the 'French and Indian War', what with the British North American colonies being restricted to - you guessed it - raising handfuls militia to defend against small-scale French and Indian raids and launch little raids of their own. It also marked a crucial turning point in the history of canada, as the colony of New France was ceded to the British by France - setting the stage for Canada's later development as a bilingual country and (with the introduction of lots of fresh immigrants to sideline them) loyalty to the national government during the next British Civil War (aka 'The American Revolution').

                                                                  The war provides the backdrop to Gotthold Ephraim Lessing's classic comedy   Frederick the Great's soldiers and generals are commemorated in many ballads by Theodor Fontane.

  Kenneth Roberts'      "Acadian Driftwood", a song by   Alluded to, if not outright covered, in  