

The possibility to let your characters witness or even participate in events that actually happened, is probably one of the most appealing aspects of historical fiction, flashbacks, time travel stories and the like. But sometimes it can be quite hard to shoehorn your characters in, if you don't want to sacrifice too much of historical accuracy. Especially if your character doesn't quite fit into the historical setting, because he is a ninja pirate zombie robot.

The solution: Take a famous historical event that is shrouded in mystery, an event of which not many details are publicly known. Then fill the gap of historical records with whatever you want, this way "revealing" what actually happened. This adds the bonus that everyone likes a good mystery (and its eventual solution).

Depending on the tone and genre of your work, your "explanation" can range from mundane, over humorous, to absolutely fantastic.

The been there, shaped history person likes to cause these events. Of course historical domain characters as well as fictional public domain characters may be involved too. Perhaps they did even use a public domain artifact.

Anyway, in the end you can proudly claim that your story is very loosely based on a true story.

Closely related to historical in-joke. Can also overlap with beethoven was an alien spy, when the focus lies on specific historical individuals. Often happens at, and tightly involves, a landmark of lore. Also, at least one of this events is a must-have for any conspiracy kitchen sink story worth its salt.

Note that sometimes mysteries get solved, or even debunked as not having been that mysterious in the first place. In this case the work either was written in a time before the solution/debunking, or the writer didn't get the memo, or he's just using artistic license.

   The disappearance of     The murders and true identity of   Ships and airplanes disappearing within     The locations and abilities of various  The case of Benjamin Bathurst, who disappeared from his hotel one day in 1809. (The actual truth is quite prosaic: Contemporary documents make it clear that he was almost certainly just mugged. Some of his personal belongings were even found during the search for him. It only became a mysterious mystery because of one particular account that made it sound like he'd disappeared into thin air in front of witnesses.)

 The unknown fate of author, journalist and satirist  D.B. Cooper, also known as Dan Cooper, who vanished on November 24, 1971 with $200,000 after hijacking a 727 and parachuting from the stairs in the tail.

 Colony collapse disorder. The sudden vanishing of worker bees from their hives across the world (leaving even their queens behind), first reported in 2006. No conclusive explanation has yet been found.

 The disappearance of the American labor union leader Jimmy Hoffa in 1975. The FBI are still looking for his body.

 The disappearance of the so-called "Jewels of Helen" excavated from the ruins of Troy was the subject of the Elizabeth Peters novel  The disappearance of the British peer Lord Lucan in 1974, shortly after his children's nanny was murdered.

 The mystery of the sailing ship  The disappearance of "The Princes in the Tower", the children of Edward IV whose uncle and Lord Protector  The disappearance of the Roanoke Colony, an English colony in what is now North Carolina, a generation before the sailing of the  The    The Reichstag (   How did the Great Sphinx of Gizeh lose its nose?

 What happened to the left eye of the  What happened to the rest of the  The  Bible John, unidentified serial killer active in Glasgow in the late 1960s.

 The death of Mary Rogers, found floating in the Hudson River in 1841.

 The gruesome unsolved murder of Elizabeth Short, nicknamed "Black Dahlia", 1947 in Los Angeles.

 The Zodiac Killer, unidentified serial killer active in northern California in the 1960s and 1970s; sent cryptogram messages to the press, some of which remain unsolved.

 The Philadelphia Experiment, allegedly conducted by the US Navy in 1943, involving the destroyer escort   The Various  In     The comic book series   In  The 