Apartheid, noun - literally, 'apart-ness'. Refers to South Africa from 1948 to 1994, which at the time of its dissolution was the most visible nation in the modern world to have 'Scientific Racialist' policies, with a government predicated on protecting and providing for a single 'race' of citizens - her ethnically European citizens, who composed between 15 and 20% of the population. This was in spite of the fact that 'race' as an anthropological theory had long since been dis-proven by 1948, not to mention universally condemned as a popular theory thanks to the millions of people who died in genocides, assorted massacres, and famines implemented and/or allowed to happen by the racialist regimes of germany and japan during world war ii. It's also worth noting that Apartheid was made possible by South Africa's status as a minority-rule democracy. European citizens (who were becoming increasingly paranoid about the rest of the country's population) could vote in fair/semi-fair elections; 'coloured' citizens' had some token-representation got slightly stronger over time and for a while even the 'black' population had a couple of token representatives amongst several dozen other members of the Parliament. But the Apartheid government was not a true democracy even for white people; activists and journalists of all races who criticised the regime were harassed, imprisoned, exiled or even killed.

During this time legalized ethnic segregation occurred and South African 'blacks' and 'coloureds'  were not considered 'true' citizens as were the country's 'whites' (who were/are mainly ethnic-English and -Dutch/'Afrikaners' - the latter being Dutch/Afrikaans for "Africans"). Instead, the South African government tried to confine the 'blacks' in particular to the countryside and gave as many of them as possible citizenship of one of ten "native homelands". Six of these were provinces of South Africa itself, and while the other four were nominally independent microstates they were still totally reliant on South Africa (which surrounded them) to survive. The initial ethnic cleansing and consequent 'apartness'/'apartheid' was officially done as part of a process of "de-colonisation" so that the native peoples of South Africa would be 'free to pursue their own path, free from patronage and protection of their European former-overlords'. In practice, the "homelands" (a.k.a. "Bantustans") were poverty-ridden hell-holes - completely devoid of healthcare or education or infrastructure - that served as sources cheap labor for South Africa's mines.

Making things a tad more complex in this cold war era, the largest anti-apartheid group ANC (African National Congress, the party that Nelson Mandela belonged to) were openly allied with Marxists. This worked against them, as the white South Africans were so vehemently anti-Communist the anti-apartheid movement could get little support, at least not from the West (USSR was more than willing to provide military training and weapons, however). Meanwhile, the U.S., UK and Israel supported the white apartheid government, mainly because they weren't dirty commies.

South Africa engaged in a number of border wars at this time, basically involving frequent cross-border raids into (Communist) Angola and Mozambique. It also fought and lost a war to keep hold of Namibia. Since this was the Cold War, anti-West independence movements were assisted throughout Africa by countries such as the USSR and Cuba. It was assisted in this endeavor by various anti-Communist, pro-West independence movements, notably UNITA.

Within South Africa, political opponents could be "banned" — barred from communicating with more than one person at any one time when not at home, from visiting certain areas and from having anything they said quoted in the media (a legal measure which is still on the books today). Indefinite detention without charge or trial was allowed for those suspected of "terrorism" — defined so broadly, like "communism", that it meant "whatever the government says". Up to 1993, South Africa had the greatest percentage of its own population in prison globally, when it was surpassed by... the U.S. (on account of mandatory minimum sentencing laws for drug offenses). Hundreds of people were tortured in jail and killed with explanations such as "fell down the stairs" — the coroner doth protest too much indeed, to the point of public inquests backing such findings. Additionally, the security and intelligence services assassinated numerous people outright, both in South Africa and abroad, usually making use of 'care packages', better known as a bomb in the mail (care packages ... they take care of you). Prominent exiled dissident Ruth First was murdered in this manner. The shift from non-violence to violence is thought of as beginning in 1960 with the Sharpeville Massacre, when frightened police (including black officers) fired on an unruly protesting crowd throwing stones, killing dozens, most shot in the back while fleeing. It went downhill in the aftermath, with armed resistance and terrorism beginning.

There is a lot of debate over who exactly is responsible for ending apartheid, especially in the post-apartheid era where anti-apartheid activities during the apartheid era is equivalent to ones street cred (and carries a lot of political favor and support). But basically in late 1989 when conservative F.W. de Klerk became president of Apartheid South Africa he announced that he planned to end the discriminatory Apartheid laws, which were successively repealed over the next four years. In 1992 when a referendum was held on whether Apartheid should be continued or not, over two thirds of white South Africans voted to end Apartheid. Of course this referendum is rarely recorded in history.

The announcement of F.W. de Klerk in 1990 started a 3-year long discussion/negotiation between the apartheid government and anti-apartheid groups culminated in the election of Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress (ANC) party in 1994. These elections are generally considered to mark the end of Apartheid and their anniversary (27 April) is now a national holiday in South Africa. For their effort to peacefully transition South Africa out of Apartheid, Nelson Mandela and F.W. de Klerk were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993. After the election of the first black president (Mandela), de Klerk stayed on as vice-president until 1996 when he retired from politics.

After apartheid ended, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission was created to help address the crimes of past, with perpetrators of crimes (from both the apartheid regime and various dissidents fighting it) given amnesty if they confessed and asked for forgiveness.

Apartheid is pronounced "apart-hate" (but only if you over-enunciate it), which may seem appropriate if your primary language is english. The word's current political meaning was coined in Afrikaans. It exists in Dutch as well, but it had no political connotations in either language before it was used to name the now-infamous government policy. It translates simply as "apart-ness." What is rather ironic about it is that the term was used because the word "segregation" was considered to have too many negative connotations, and "apartheid" was considered a more neutral term for the policy. Although similar policies existed before then, even before the formation of the Union of South Africa (being known as the "Shepstonian System" in the British Empire's Natal Colony, which joined the Union in 1910), it was only officially and nationally entrenched in law in 1948. If you're in America, this is kind of like the difference between state and federal law: before apartheid, some provinces were less segregationist than others, while afterward they no longer had any lawful choice in the matter.

Did we mention that, although South Africa was part of the Allies in ww2, some members of the South African government when apartheid was first conceived were nazi sympathizers? Well, we did now. In the early 1970s, an extreme white supremacist and neo-fascist group, the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging or AWB, meaning Afrikaner Resistance Movement, was formed and in fact clashed with the apartheid government itself, which they felt was too soft.BoycottsSouth Africa was subjected for much of this period to a large-scale international economic and military boycott from the '60s onwards-the south africans with surface-to-air missiles developed weapons indigenously with Israeli help (that's right, Israel helped the National Party segregate blacks. Why? Probably so they could get uranium to build their own nukes), including working on a shared nuclear weapons program. The so-called "Vela Incident", an explosion out in the ocean near Antarctica which was picked up by U.S. surveillance satellites, was probably a South African nuclear test.

More importantly, however, South Africa suffered from a serious shortage of skilled labor and foreign investment was decidedly lacklustre-not so much because multinational  had any particular moral qualms with the regime (though doing so became increasingly controversial) as the fact that the whole country looked like a powder-keg ready to explode and take all one's investments with it. The situation got so bad that 'honorary white' racial status-with its lack of restrictions upon travel, jobs, and pay-was given to the employees of Taiwanese and Japanese corporations willing to do business with them.

South Africa also faced a cultural boycott. South Africa was barred from the Olympics from 1964 to 1992. Going to South Africa to compete would get a sportsperson very bad press. International cricket, a big South African sport, had occurred spottily. There were some "rebel" tours, including two of England players, which resulted in players getting bans as a result. rugby union ties with New Zealand remained-when New Zealand toured South Africa in 1976, twenty-five African nations boycotted the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal after the IOC refused to ban New Zealand over the tour. Then in 1981 South Africa toured New Zealand, where the anti-apartheid lobby clashed with rugby fans and caused widespread riots. Artists organized boycotts against performing in South Africa during this period also.

It is fair to say the South African government contributed to this situation. The TCCB was perfectly happy to send the England cricket team on tour to SA, until the fateful season where England wished to send Basil D'Olivera, a mixed-race cricketer, as part of the team. South Africa insisted that D'Olivera be subject to apartheid law while in the country and kept separate from the rest of the team, who were all white. This meant he would have had to be treated as a Coloured (mixed race person in South African parlance) for the duration of his stay and have no contact with the team, except when training or playing. England refused this condition as unacceptable. South Africa then banned D'Olivera from entering the country at all. England, refusing to set a precedent that any host country should dictate their team selection, then called off the tour. Ironically D'Olivera was himself a South African, and had left for England to escape his country's pre-existing ban on non-whites playing first class cricket.

In terms of media, Equity banned works involving its members from being shown on South African television, which arrived in 1975 (before that, TV was banned as a morally corrupting influence). If you actually went to South Africa to film, you were not going to be popular. On a more informal level in the 1980s, the same thing applied for popular musicians who performed at the infamous Sun City resort in South Africa, as Artists Against Apartheid pointed out in their protest song "Sun City." Interestingly enough, Sun City was in a homeland/reservation, since gambling was illegal in the Republic itself. This cultural boycott occasionally got rather out of hand, as when paul simon was criticized for recording his magnum opus Graceland in south africa... entirely with musicians who were black in the first place.

Mercenary LegacyWith apartheid coming to an end and a new government in place, one of their first actions was to reform (read: get rid of) the then-current standing military, presumably since for decades the military was the iron first of the apartheid government and performed numerous operations (above-board and otherwise; counterinsurgency isn't always pretty) in order to undermine anti-apartheid activities. To be fair, most soldiers were given the option to stay on, but many didn't want to be commanded by Soviet-trained officers they'd been fighting against for all of the cold war. Most of the soldiers, well-trained with years of active military experience, became Mercenaries (or Military Contractors). Most notably the PMC (Private Military Contractor) Executive Outcomes was founded by former members of the apartheid government and when on to take part in a number of military actions in Africa. Today it is still common for South Africans to be part of NATO-aligned mercenary groups in places like Iraq and Afghanistan, although the increasing age of the apartheid-era generation and the smaller number of new mercenary recruits makes it a dwindling phenomenon. Also, since mercenary companies (and associated activities) are illegal in South Africa, the privatized military-style South African forces you do see these days are called "security companies" now. So, if you ever make any official inquiry, there are no South African mercenaries, but it makes little practical difference.

  The    Irvine Welsh's  In an episode of  In the  The novel and film   In   In      An episode of   The  Almost anything by   The  In the movie  South African author Alan Paton is most well-known for his anti-apartheid literature, such as  The 1987 film  The apartheid South African Defence Force is one of the playable sides in  Similar to the  In the    In the 