Formerly the world's largest empire, covering a quarter of the globe and roughly the same again of its population. Because of the rotation of the earth illuminating different areas of the globe, it was often stated, and technically true (even today, due to the remaining overseas dependencies), that the sun NEVER set on the British Empire. Home of men in red coats and pith helmets, being served lots and lots of tea by the locals.

All that remains now are a few islands, a place with a load of apes-- er, monkeys that the spanish want back because they took it off them 300 years ago and another place with a load of penguins that the argentines have strong feelings about.

Economically, it was a good thing for general economic development as it enforced a free-trade area over a quarter of the globe with no tariffs (zero) in or out of it. Though of course there were tolls and stamp taxes and such. This resulted in a lot of rather lopsided economic development, with some highly-developed areas right next to or in the middle of totally untouched ones. Profit margins, stability and ease of rule determined whether or not an area would be modernised and developed or not; in most cases, the British were content to rule by proxy (like the hegemonic empire of ancient rome) rather than stirring things up too much by bringing people 'civilisation' in earnest - with the muddled exception of Missionaries, who had a habit of making these arrangements rather awkward. (This differentiates the British style from the french who ruled directly more often and even where they didn't rule directly had a habit of extensive meddling in things the British generally left alone, like education.)

Though some people look upon it with a sense of pride and others with a sort of disapproving ambivalence, some countries have far less favourable memories of the British Empire. In the Peoples' Republic of China the Department of Education's textbooks portray the Opium Wars as a fairly clear-cut case of the British acting as the aggressive drug dealers who used China as a dumping ground for opium because the Brits ran out of silver to buy more tea. And then exploiting China as a market for their manufactured goods. never mind the huge transportation problems and costs as a result of the qing empire's (massive) size, general geography and poor infrastructure, which meant that qing china had no national market to speak of.The British have a pretty bad rep in India as well, where they are blamed from the time that the british east india company first managed to crowd out the Dutch and French East India Companies and rise to prominence. Although India saw development and modernisation under the Empire, the unrestrained nature of British trade and investment saw the country develop along rather skewed lines which put them in an awkward position when they tried to adopt protectionist policies in the aftermath of independence. The main gripe people had with The Raj was, curiously enough, that its government was far too small; the Indian Civil Service had 2000 personnel at its height, and these Britons ran 2/3 of the entire subcontinent on a ridiculously tiny budget. While this was okay by the standards of the 19th century, the lack of Government spending on education or healthcare began to tell as the twentieth century went on and various European nation-states began to really invest in these things for the first time. Moreover, this kind of 'hands-off' approach was often disastrous during natural disaster and famines as the relief-efforts organised by charities were almost always insufficient - only the government had the power to save everyone, but doing so (as with investing in proper education or healthcare) would require greater taxation... which would rock the proverbial boat when all the East India Company and Raj wanted to do was keep things quietly ticking over (preventable deaths or no!). Speaking of which, the Indian nationalist and independence movements were also defined quite specifically in opposition to Britain, and the promotion of Indian nationalism in the 1950s-70s invariably meant embracing anti-British sentiment.

Many historians distinguish between the First and the Second British Empire, with the first being pre-American-rebellion and the Second being everything else. It should also be noted that much of the Empire, being pre-Industrial and often pre-Agrarian, was actually a bit of a money pit, costing a lot more to maintain and control than it generated in profits. 'Empire on a Shoestring', it has been termed. This led to the grants of "responsible government" colonies with substantial English-speaking White populations (e.g. Canada and Australia)—the idea was that these regions would pay for their defense themselves. The grants of independence after World War II were also motivated by a desire to save money; had it not been for the war—which stretched the British budget to the breaking point something similar would probably have happened in the typically slow, no-fuss way the British Empire tended to operate.

Technically a vestigial empire due to the economic disasters that world war i and especially world war ii imposed on Britain, which essentially ate up all the savings they'd accumulated after a century of massive overseas investment (the country as a whole invested something like a third of its savings abroad). They then had to give up their political and military powers over their colonies, though British economic influence was much slower to fade despite the nationalisation of many British corporations' assets (e.g. the Anglo-Iranian Oil corporation). Now replaced by the commonwealth of nations, where the locals get to make their own decisions, and don't necessarily have the Queen as Head of State if they don't want to.

   Bits and pieces of Southeast Asia, largely confined to Malaya, Singapore and Burma (which was in fact governed as part of the Raj until 1937). Sites of brutal battles against the Japanese during the   Bits and pieces of the Middle East: Aden on the southern coast of Yemen at the entrance to the Red Sea and the Gulf States, Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain, Qatar, and what became the United Arab Emirates.

 Egypt: British troops occupied Egypt in 1882 to crush a rebellion against the government the British and French had installed to ensure that Egypt paid back its loans (a gullible ruler had been sweet-talked into borrowing huge amounts to fund the construction of the Suez Canal when  The Sudan: Britain's  British East Africa/ British Uganda: Had a railway, scorpions, and the young Idi Amin. It is, occasionally,  Bechuanaland Protectorate: Now  Rhodesia: Now Zimbabwe and Zambia. Named for Cecil Rhodes, who colonised the region. A national hero in his day, he is generally perceived as a less pleasant individual  Nyasaland: Now Malawi. Explored by Livingstone, we presume.

 West Africa (the Gambia,  The West Indies:  A seemingly random selection of bits of the Mediterranean grabbed from wars with Spain and Napoleon onwards:  The Dominions: Places which largely ran themselves, and turned out nicely and are still close to Britain (two of them have the Union Jack in their flag). These had and have extremely large Anglo-Saxon populations, the exception being South Africa.

   Many of the   Some of the early   Pretty much anything (although NOT everything) written by     The better part of   A few chapters of   