

The period in America from around 1607-1763 where just about everyone was a puritan pilgrim and had to attend church services that were approximately 11 days long. everyone wore black all the time; the men all carried blunderbusses and wore tall hats with big buckles around them, while the women all wore bonnets and square linen collars with optional large red a's. The women were all called "goody Somethingorother"  and were frequently burned at the stake as witches. Occupations among the men, besides the aforementioned prayer and witch-burning, included persecuting quakers, oppressing native americans, being scalped, and hunting turkeys for the first thanksgiving day dinner.

People came here expecting to get rich quick, and it almost never happened. Most of them remained poor or indentured servants all their lives. In the southern colonies, everyone was more concerned with digging for gold that didn't exist than with growing food, at least until they began growing tobacco and made loads and loads of money. They also brought in some slaves during this time, which would have some really bad consequences years down the line.

The colonies were mostly self-governing since it was pretty much impossible for Parliament to heavily govern settlements months away. They also began practicing primitive forms of democracy during this time, especially in New England and Pennsylvania. Still, the monarchy had some level of control; royal colonies were the ones where the king appointed the governor himself, and the list grew larger over the years. Hey, maybe slowly having their self-governing institutions come under the direct authority of a monarch living months away would lead them to protest this or something. Almost all of the colonies had established churches supported with taxpayer money.

Here is some information on the founding and history of each colony (founding date in parentheses):

                A few strips of   Many of Nathaniel Hawthorne's works, including   The  The short story "Ezekiel" by Desmond Warzel takes place in Roanoke in 1587 (the first English settlement in North America, and thus the very earliest part of this period).

  The  Touched on in      See above about H.P. Lovecraft's works, and then look at   One episode of   