Era in French History when marie antoinette allegedly tried giving her subjects a little dietary advice, who responded by storming Versailles and putting her and her brave husband Louis XVI to death by the guillotine. Their son, the Dauphin, makes it out of France alive, though, thanks to the tireless efforts of that "demmed elusive pimpernel". Everyone in this time period wore pastel-colored satin, big fancy wigs, fake beauty marks, and snorted snuff like it was cocaine. Unless they were poor, in which case they wore trousers with tricolor badges and sung "String the aristocrats from the lamp posts!" whilst waving their pitchforks and gnashing their rotting teeth. Don't forget about taking down l'Ancien Régime.

Then napoleon took over, and marched across Europe, stopped only by Richard sharpe or the russian winter, depending on your nationality.

The more cynical version of the French Revolution wasn't nearly that much fun. Start with a series of nations (Britanny, Gascogne, etcetc, a unified 'French' identity or even language had yet to be invented) that kind of hate and have to share a realm with each other as well as being drained by three major world wars in the last hundred years and lots of smaller ones besides (the american revolution in particular, which basically boiled down to Britain vs France  with Britain to get back for the last one), add some conspicuously expensive-to-make-and-keep royal palaces and in a new and very young king and queen who don't have a clue how to run the country (it doesn't help that their young son died in the early weeks of the Revolutionary period), throw in a rigid social system more or less akin to castes, a famine that makes bread too expensive for the average person in the Parisian Basin to buy, and don't forget to add a heaping helping of bitter, crude, ranting over the "austrian bitch" at Versailles and an arbitrary non-income-based tax system that meant far too many people's tax demand was greater than their entire income.

The revolution started with many liberal and progressive ideas. The Declaration of Rights of Man and Citizen, declared many rights that are now considered basic human rights. In a radical idea at the time, divorce was legalized and so was, surprisingly, homosexual sex. Guilds were abolished, allowing more people to enter professions that had been protected by stringent requirements meant to protect its members from competition. Church lands were seized, and clergy were forced to swear an oath to the new constitution. At first the King seemed to be embracing the idea of a constitutional monarchy, even swearing an oath to uphold the constitution. However, in a scathing letter left behind when he escaped Paris, he made it clear that this was not the case. On the 10th of August 1792, the sans culottes and the National Guard attacked the Tuileries Palace and slaughtered the Swiss Guard guarding the royal family. The constitutional monarchy was no more, with the king placed under arrest. From there all order was lost, with the government declaring itself revolutionary. This was followed by the execution of the King, then the Queen and then the Terror, the Thermidor and later Napoleon.

An example of the variety of viewpoints is: in England "Jacobin" means "Jacobin", in America "Jacobin" means "fanatic", in Austria "Jacobin" means people like Alexander I of Russia, and in France "Jacobin" means "anti-federalists". To this day, the european political spectrum is largely oriented by one's opinions on the French Revolution: the terms "left" and "right" themselves originate in where the delegates sat in the national assembly (other cool terms like Montagnard (Mountaineer) have not survived). Indeed, the French Revolution also affected American politics. Many political clubs developed in America in imitation of the French, much to President Washington's displeasure. The pro-Revolution camp was called "Democrat" by Citizen Genet (a Girondin ambassador who got stranded in America when the reign of terror was unleashed). The Haitian Revolution and its mounting refugee crisis, spilling out of the French Revolution, also affected its politics. Broadly speaking, liberalism consists in agreeing with it only so far as it went before the Reign of Terror; socialism consists in extending and "perfecting" it; conservatism consists in working within the structures it creates but either thinking it went too far/too fast or disliking it; and reaction consists in trying to do away with it altogether. These notions have slipped a lot with time, the modern meaning of these terms being quite different. red october and world war ii changed these positions (for instance fascism was added, encompassing a combination of socialism's revolutionary spirit with a conservative/reactionary twist on its ideals), but did little to alter the overall orientation.

The French Revolution is usually considered to be a radical alternative to the american revolution. Ironically, at the time the French and American revolutions were seen as ideological twins (subject peoples inspired by radical liberal ideas overthrowing aristocracies, led by radicalised members of the middle class like Robespierre and Washington) and supporters of one were usually supporters of the other (thomas paine, the Anglo-US radical, considered a traitor by the British for his support of the American revolution, was an equally-fierce supporter of the revolution in France; he later turned against the leaders of both considering them what we would now call sell-outs). Also ironically, the most famous man to say anything about both revolutions, Irish statesman Edmund Burke, supported the American Revolution but not the one in France - he supported the Americans because they were fighting for freedom but opposed what the French were doing because they were trying to change too much too fast and based only on largely untested ideas.

In a way he was right, the French Revolution unlike the American one featured for the very first time, universal male suffrage (women did not get the vote, sadly, in this it was aligned with the American revolution) by which every citizen in France of a certain age, regardless of occupation and vote was given a vote. Suffrage in America at least in its early days was limited to property owners. The French National Convention election in 1792 was the first time in the modern era that it was practiced. Suffrage after Thermidor would be increasingly restricted until returning in the Second Republic. The French Revolution also developed a reform program during the reign of terror that aimed at fixing the price of bread, regulating the market and wealth redistribution. One aspect in which the French Revolution went further than America was the fact that it witnessed in February 1794, the first occasion in the ruling government of a Western power where slavery was outright abolished in an act of law, partly out of principles but also because of the pressures of the Revolution in Haiti which was happening side by side. When Napoleon took power, these and other reforms were set back and made illegal again.

Modern "interpretations" of the events of the period usually say much more about contemporary politics and bickering than they do about the late 18th century.

The rest of Europe, which was still ruled by kings and emperors, were alarmed at what was happening in France. Many of the rest of Europe's great powers eventually invaded France in the French Revolutionary Wars, either to forcibly put the Bourbons back on the throne, prevent the revolution from spreading to their own lands or even to take advantage of the chaos in France. Over the course of the war, the French proved to be anything but cheese-eating surrender monkeys, repeatedly thrashing everyone from Great Britain to Austria to the Holy Roman Empire to Spain. A young napoleon bonaparte was among france's generals, developing the reputation and skills that would serve him so well later in his career, at the same time building his contacts among revolutionaries in different factions. He was initially a Jacobin and supporter of the Terror, it was Robespierre's brother Augustin who gave him his first major promotion. During the Thermidor, Napoleon was briefly imprisoned for his association with Robespierre but later released. He became a national hero by defending Paris on 13 Vendemmiare against the Vendee royalist faction. He commanded the defense and won it, in Carlyle's phrase, with a "whiff of grapeshot" and didn't even have a scratch.

The Revolution was innovative for a number of features.

For one thing it introduced Total War, mass conscription of civilian soldiers into the Army, the Levee en masse issued by the great engineer Lazare Carnot, an action for which he was called the Organizer of Victory. This involved able-bodied men, women and children performing all kinds of actions. Women were sent to hospitals and sent to work while the men were sent to fight the War in all kinds of capacities. Such initiative and mobilization would be repeated on a far grander scale during world war ii but the world saw it first here.

Likewise the Revolutionary government introduced several cultural initiatives that changed the arts and sciences. The most successful were a bunch of units introduced by the National Convention in Year 3 (1795) like the meter for lengths, the liter for volumes of liquid, the gram for mass, along with multiples of these units by factors of 2 and 10 like the kilogram (1000 grams), double decaliter (20 liters), or the centimeter (0.01 meters). It since has become quasi universal. It was during the Revolution that the Louvre Palace, already used as a warehouse for the Royal Art collection and a residency for artists patronized by the throne, became the Louvre Museum, opening it to the public and declaring it part of the cultural patrimony. Likewise the Royal Garden became the Jardin des Plantes, headed by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, who would eventually become a key pre-Darwin evolutionary theorist. Other long lasting changes include the departments — the borders of which have changed little since 1789 — and the tricolor flag. Not that the government was a bastion of freedom, during the Reign of Terror, the likes of Chateaubriand (who was a fierce royalist) and Beaumarchais (the playwright, author of "The Marriage of Figaro" who moonlighted as an arms dealer for both the American and French Revolutions) were forced into exile and one of the victims of the Terror was the father of Modern Chemistry, Antoine Laurent de Lavoisier himself, because of his past as a tax collector and a Girondin.

Lastly, we can't discuss La Revolution without talking about the Republican Calendar. Wanting to eliminate Christian influence, the French reset their calendars based on the new French Republic. 1792 (the year the Republic was founded) was now Year I (years were written in Roman numerals), and September 22 (the official beginning of the Republic) marked the beginning of the year. But it didn't end there. Years were divided into 12 months...but each month had 30 days (months were renamed after the common weather conditions of Paris), and each week had 10 days. A mostly decimal-based calendar looked good and orderly on paper, but in practice was somewhat more complicated. For instance, there would first be five-year intervals between leap years, followed by four. Even so, the French and eventually Napoleon persevered at it before giving up in 1805. The revolutionaries even tried to institute decimal hours, minutes, and seconds, but this proved even less popular.

Some basic notes:

 Louis XVI stayed King until 1792. He called the Estates-General in 1789 (the only body in France representing every Estate, or class, which hadn't been called since  The King and the Royal Court for his part kept issuing vetoes on every issue,(earning him and his wife the nickname "Monsieur and Madame Veto") led astray by bad advice and the hope that the Revolution was a passing frenzy. Mirabeau and Lafayette tried to urge the King to begin reforms but the Queen was paranoid and distrusted both of them. Constitutional Monarchy at the time was even supported by the Jacobin-Montagnards (even Saint-Just of all people) who were not yet radicalized. The turning point came with the Flight to Varennes, a horrible PR disaster which really split the existing factions into moderate and extreme lines (Girondins and Jacobins). This and the Storming of the Tuilleries marked the end of Constitutional Monarchy and the birth of the Republic.

 A faction of the Jacobins, led by Jacques Pierre Brissot came to be called the Girondins or Brissotins. They were the leading voices in the years 1792-early 1793. They were slow to pass reforms, represented and catered to the provincial cities rather than the Parisian sans-culottes/nascent working-class. They also sought to energize the Revolution by declaring war on Austria which Robespierre famously opposed, only to be silenced as it gained support even among extremists like the Hebertists.

 When the War started losing ground, and General Dumouriez who the Girondins had touted as highly sympathetic to the nation, defected to the enemy along with other noble defections, France found its borders threatened. This led to a city-wide insurrection that put the Jacobins in power, the Girondins imprisoned and the proper beginning of the  The Reign of Terror under the Committee of Public Safety, killed 17,000 people by Guillotine after a trial. While unofficial executions may have gone up to 40,000. Towards the final month of Thermidor, it became worse, a period called the "Great Terror". Statistically, and contrary to popular belief, only 8% of the victims were aristocrats (who considering they were 1% of the population did feel a disproportionate impact), 25% of the victims were bourgeois and middle-class, 28% were peasants and working-class and the rest were clergy. During the "Great Terror" after the Law of 22 Prarial,  There were only seven prisoners in the Bastille when it was stormed, none of whom were political (the Marquis de Sade had been moved 10 days earlier). Besides, the goal of the rioters wasn't to free them but to get some weapons to defend themselves against royal troops. This event appears to have come about from rumours about said troops preparing a massacre of revolutionaries.

 There were several different governments during this time:

 Napoleon Bonaparte ended this when he took direct power. See also,

  Some of the stars of this event have their own pages:

                                                                                                                              The      A significant part of   French writer Anatole France's  Alejo Carpentier, the Cuban author wrote two classics about the impact of the French Revolution on Latin America.

        Fireaxe's  "Bastille Day" by          The 