The Gilded Age is one of the most common terms for the period in American history between the end of the civil war and the presidency of theodore roosevelt at the turn of the 20th century. During this period, America grew to become a rich and powerful nation, began to build an empire, and saw the creations of thousands of fortunes. It also saw the era of mass immigration from Europe and (to a lesser extent) Asia, with over ten million coming in the period 1865-1896. Many of these were from countries that "native" wasps liked even less than the Irish, such as Italy and tsarist russia; particularly alarming to White America was the large influx of Jews. All these immigrants came chasing the american dream; the vast majority were treated to slums and sweatshops in America's rapidly-growing cities. It should come as no surprise, then, that the name "Gilded Age" comes from a story co-written by mark twain and Charles Dudley Warner in 1873, and refers to the extreme opulence of the era contrasted with widespread poverty on the ground, compared to a "gilded" item: one covered in gold, but actually made of something less valuable.

As you might imagine, this era is particularly rich in tropes. J. P. Morgan, Jay Gould, the Vanderbilts, and other robber barons populate the posh districts of New York, Boston, and Philadelphia, while the poor new immigrants find life hard in the vast slums. The Republican Party runs everything in washington as a political machine despite the protests of the reforming "Mugwumps" within the GOP. The only Democrat to win the White House during these 35 years was grover cleveland, a reformer who only won because he had support from the Mugwumps—indeed the term "Mugwump" arose as a term of abuse (convoluted story, but in essence it accused them of being holier than thou) for Republicans who supported Cleveland. In the South, there is Reconstruction and then its end: the aftermath of the end of slavery, with Carpetbaggers coming from the North to take advantage of business opportunities and blacks getting their rights only to see them stripped away in the wake of the deal to put rutherford b. hayes in the White House in the election of 1876. Expect to see the former southern belle as a princess in rags and the southern gentleman as a member of the klan. As for the economy, deflation and banking panics were huge problems, big monopolies crushed local competition, and unions and farmers struggled to find their voice.

Eventually, people got so fed up with everything going on that a widespread reform movement began in the country around the 1890's. This is known as the Progressive Era, and it brought us theodore roosevelt and woodrow wilson.

Out West is the wild west, which is of course a trope of its own.

See also: victorian britain/victorian london and the edwardian era (which covers this time period across the pond). For Japan see meiji restoration.

NOTE: wild west examples should go in that page.

                Many of the works of    A good portion of    Of course,  The very beginning of the Vito Corleone sections of 