

A side effect of hollywood history, these are time periods that rarely, if ever, appear in fiction. Maybe the writers/executives/etc. aren't aware of or familiar with them. Maybe they fear the ignorance of the viewers. Whatever the reason, mentioning these time periods will leave the audience confused over some details and the history buffs cheering.

Some periods really lend themselves to fiction - there's just something compelling about ancient egypt and those wacky nazis that means it's not surprising how often they show up. However, after a while it gets a little baffling why equally fascinating periods get left out. Ancient China was as imperial and decadent as Rome, with the technological progress of Renaissance Europe and ships the size of small castles, but where's their summer blockbuster?

One not-unsubstantiated theory is that most Hollywood movies are aimed at white people. Studio executives will often fear that white audiences will stay away if there are too many people of color in a film. Places and times that white people are notably absent from won't often get featured unless a race lift is done to the main cast (note how many times movies set in pre-Ptolemy ancient egypt feature an all-white cast), or a white person or persons are inserted into the story, to give the (mostly white) target audience someone who looks like them, with whom they can sympathize. Even if the setting does have white people in it, if said people aren't part of British or American history, they can still be largely ignored by the (mostly American) Hollywood film industry..

This page is intended to be a resource of particularly interesting periods almost-forgotten, in the hope that they will get more exposure over time, if only to the wiki.

Time Periods are roughly organized into the following:

 Pre-History: The time before the written word, before civilization, farming, etc., and thus far too boring to depict.  Ancient History:  Middle History:  Modern History: Just some notes:

 If you know of any works related to a given time period, please create a list under the related folder if one doesn't already exist and then add the works.

 If a wiki page exists for the time period, please link it in.

 If you know something about the period, and know that it isn't featured somewhere else in the wiki, please add the information to the text for that time period.

creator provincialism can result in a specific time period having a lot of coverage in the media of a particular region and being virtually unknown outside that area.

If you know anyone looking to do a troper work or fan fic, but who needs a setting, point them to this page.

Contrast hollywood history, and many others. For the biology-related sister trope, check out seldom seen species. Not to be confused with the greatest story never told.

hollywood history acknowledges some vaguely-recognisable form of:

 The Grecian city-states, primarily Athens and Sparta

 Rome

 Egypt

It ignores:

 Due to  Includes:

The problem with World War I is that World War II has Nazis, which makes it a straight Good vs Evil fight and therefore more popular with writers. And even within World War I, most media concentrate on the British Sector of the Western Front and, occasionally, Gallipoli, and ignore everything else entirely. You'd almost be forgiven for wondering why they called it a "world war" at all, since it was apparently just Brits fighting Germans in France...

Although World War II is done to death in pop culture, a number of fronts are rarely ever mentioned.

