No, not the "gay" you were thinking of, nor the nineties you were thinking of for that matter. This trope doesn't refer to the decade of internet, floppy disks, flannel shirts, kurt cobain, Starbucks, Seinfeld, Rachel Green hair, lambada, bill clinton, beverly hills 90210, OJ Simpson, pokémon, britney spears, sonic the hedgehog, and Ford Explorers.

No, this trope covers depictions of the 1890s, the realm of oscar wilde, William Jennings Bryan, nikola tesla, arthur conan doyle and the Gibson Girl.

You see, back in the earlier half of the twentieth century, people became enamored with the 1890s. It was the precursor to what we now call "decade nostalgia" and The Gay Nineties became a popular setting for films of the 1930s, the 1940s and, to a lesser degree, the 1950s and 1960s, by which time it was seen as that innocent age before World Wars and atomic bombs.

If you lived in this time period, you were generally fortunate as long as you lived in wealthier countries of the world (and in America, if you weren't a member of a minority), as it was a time of relative peace (see below). On the flip side if you were born in this decade, you would most likely live long enough to see and probably be involved in the First World War, the Spanish Flu, the Great Depression, the rise of totalitarianism, wartime genocides and the Second World War.

This was also the time of the last great gold rush in the Klondike region of the Yukon. Thousands of prospectors headed north to strike it rich, and while the American town of Skagway, Alaska may been wild, the prospectors in Canada quickly learned that they were in a very different gold rush, with the North West Mounted Police under the command of Sam Steele keeping a firm hand on their behaviour. As such, it was the most orderly of such affairs in history and the legend of the Mounties was born.

The automobile was just barely invented, so new that people couldn't agree on what to call it ("Horseless carriage" is the memetic old-timey name, but that only scratches the surface). Most people who lived in cities traveled around in horse-drawn hansom cabs, pedaled bicycles (built for two or otherwise, and often the kind with the enormous front wheel, called penny-farthings) and rode on trolleys; but most people still lived on the farm, and horse-drawn farm wagons were used as all-purpose transportation. In major cities, electric lights were replacing gas lamps and candles. Other technologies that would later be typical of the 20th century and beyond, such as planes, telephones and films, were also being developed around this time. Ragtime was the hottest music.

According to nostalgic films set in this decade, back then everyone was a rich white person who wore gorgeous period dress, with every lady wearing art nouveau inspired dresses with giant poofy sleeves and carrying parasol of prettiness, and they all liked to hang out in ritzy places located in major U.S. cities (for new york, this was Delmonico's restaurant at the Waldorf-Astoria hotel). In fact, the "everybody's rich" stereotype stems from a conflation of this period with "the gilded age" (1876-1917), as the Gay Nineties were also marked by economic depression and much labor agitation (see Panic of 1893 on the other wiki), not to mention the spanish-american war. Even then, the term "Gilded Age" (as in, "coated in gold") was specifically meant to indicate that the good times were only a surface veneer, with serious problems lurking just beneath (as the Gay Nineties themselves later demonstrated). If you can find the graphic history book, The Good Old Days: They Were Terrible!, you can see a sobering look at the real grimy realities of the era. It was certainly grim if you weren't a well off white man in that time; racism was blatant and commonplace and had the backing of law with the Supreme Court ruling in Plessy vs. Fergusen that racial segregation was legal as long as long as it was "separate but equal," a condition which practically no civil government took seriously.

Abroad, things were jumping internationally. In France, there was the Dreyfus Affair where Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish French Army officer, was made the scapegoat of a trumped up treason charge. The controversy tore apart France as conservatives and the Army stubbornly refused to have Dreyfus' case retried no matter how much evidence about his innocence piled up, citing the need to uphold the "Honor of the army" (Which apparently involved covering up and defending the lies enabling a blatant miscarriage of justice). Meanwhile, Britain found itself in its own version of the vietnam war with the  in Southern Africa. It proved a frustrating fight against a savvy, well armed and determined foe that finally required the British rounding up the civilian population in concentration camps to break the will of the enemy. At the same time, King Leopold of Belgium was making a mint with his Congo Free State, a massive swath of Equatorial Africa as his personal property which was exploited to the hilt with ruthless colonial brutality enforcing his will, causing a death toll estimated to be 10 million Africans. It would inspire the joseph conrad novel, Heart of Darkness, in which there was a very good real life reason why Kurtz's last words were, "The horror... the horror..."

Meanwhile, Germany's international presence changed dramatically as Kaiser Wilhelm got rid of the master politician, otto von bismarck, and set his country onto a recklessly aggressive stance that Bismarck strove to avoid, such as directly challenging Britain. And the Ottoman Empire, already beginning to split at the seams and having never quite recovered from losing Greece earlier in the century (in fact, political satire of the day referred to the empire as "The sick man of Europe"), showed its first signs of turning its Christian minorities into scapegoats, with widespread massacres that sent the first big wave of Armenian refugees to America and elsewhere (the next, even bigger wave coming during world war one).

It should also be noted that the term "Gay Nineties" for this era, like the "edwardian era" that followed it, is primarily British. In America there is also the aforementioned "Gilded Age" from the End of Radical Reconstruction until the entry into World War I, while in continental Europe you usually use the French la Belle Épocque (roughly 1884 to 1914), the German "Wilhelmic Era" (Wilhelminische Ära, 1890 to 1914), or the French-Austrian Fin de siècle (also 1890 to 1914).

Films actually made in the 1890s were about thirty seconds long with little to no plot (people were still amazed that pictures could move). You can watch some of them here.Art in this decade had shifts from the traditional, realistic and impressionist movements to the innovative, modernizing and expressionist movements. art nouveau had its full blossoming glory after the style spread in Europe, and the works of vincent van gogh after his death, Paul Gaugin, Alphonse Mucha, and others went into full display.

Historically, the 1890s was one of the more iconic periods of American history, leaving an impression every bit as indelible as the fifties still does today. As a result, long after the actual decade had faded from memory (sometimes quite long after it faded), many of its tropes and stereotypes remained common fodder for depictions in the popular arts. This wasn't usually done without at least a bit of irony (usually only in satirical or cloudcuckoolander works), but writers and artists returned to the gay nineties well so often that its conventions became even more stereotypical.

Prominent Examples Include:  Civic leaders (mayors, for the most part)  Aristocrats and the wealthy sporting monocles and acting in even  Police officers still dressed like the "Bobbies" of the nineteenth century

 Political campaigners decked out in wide-striped suits and boater hats (although, to be sure, this continues to be  Women still attired in white gloves (whether wrist length or  Little boys pairing suit coats with short pants (think  Little girls with either  "Ethnic" whites (that is, anyone not at least 50 percent Anglo-Saxon) still speaking in their "just-off-the-boat" accents

 Nonwhites (the Chinese in particular, not so much black people)  Circus performers (strong men, in particular) with elaborate handlebar moustaches.

 Pennyfarthings (those bicycles with the giant front wheel)

 "Horseless carriages" that people shake their heads and tsk at, claiming  A lady and her suitor on an  A brass band playing at a bandstand in a park or in the town square.

As of November 2013 there are only five people alive born in this decade, so today there is basically no one left to be nostalgic about it. This is a forgotten trope and the fact that the name "Gay Nineties" was never changed should give you an idea how long it's been dead. Of course, they still make films set in the 1890s, but the nostalgic version of the '30s and '40s is pretty much gone. In fact, some modern-day Hollywood writers seems to think any year not starting with "19" or "20" means "completely pre-industrial revolution". For example, see the entry on The Village farther down this page. But as a result of today's general unfamiliarity with the period, works set in the 1880's or 1900's may make their setting indistinguishable from the stereotypical Gay Nineties.

As was suggested earlier, the fifties and the eighties eventually replaced the 1890s as the nostalgic period of choice, with the result that that decade's tropes largely replaced the ones mentioned above (resulting in still the fifties or the eighties, perhaps)?

However, kooky Gay Nineties stuff still pops up occasionally, most often in works directed at preteen children, or in surreal comedy series such as The Simpsons or Family Guy. Also, the rise in popularity of steam punk may represent a new, updated reflection of the nostalgia for the nostalgia.steampunk is when this crosses paths with science fiction and gaslamp fantasy is when this crosses paths with fantasy. (though ironically, in real life the gay nineties were the period where the world began to move beyond traditional Steampunk/Gaslamp fantasy aesthetics because of new technologies and movements such as Art Nouveau)

Nor is this trope exclusively American. If anything, the British seem to make a fetish out of it even more. (This may be because the mid 1890s represented the high point of the British Empire, before the Boer War took the gloss off and the Great War began its decline, and where queen vicky celebrated sixty years of her reign.) And in France, well, this era is known as La Belle Epoque for a reason.

If a story set during the gay nineties takes place in the western part of the United States or Canada, the twilight of the old west trope often comes into play.

See Also: regency england, victorian britain, the gilded age, the edwardian era, the roaring twenties, the great depression, the forties and the fifties, and also two decades behind.

