The Great Depression / The Dirty Thirties: Home to dust bowl farmers, reedy-voiced folk singers and rail-riding hobos. Life pretty much sucks unless you're lucky enough to be a rich socialite, in which case you can expect to be involved in a wacky screwball comedy which may or may not involve either three short, bumbling men named larry, moe and curly, or two fast-talkers named groucho and chico and their mute accomplice Harpo (as the Depression drove prices plummeting through the floor, people with money suddenly found their cash increasing in value). Or if you're female, you could ditch the dust bowl and head off to Hollywood, become an actress, and wear long, sexy gowns on premiere night, showing off some tanned skin.

Otherwise, you would be scraping to survive, as Steinbeck wrote in The Grapes of Wrath and Of Mice and Men. For some, it's a time to run wild to take what you want against the fat cats who exploited the people as one of the Public Enemies like John Dillinger or the bank robbing couple Bonnie and Clyde. Others found more constructive paths, such as folk singer Woody Guthrie who rode the rails Bound for Glory singing as the voice of the underprivileged, or the pulp and newspaper-strip writers who were busily concocting proto superhero stories, leading up to .

Against this, President herbert hoover found himself completely over his head, refusing to accept the reality of how bad the times were, while blindly mouthing absurd statements like "Prosperity is just around the corner." He was replaced by franklin d. roosevelt who did his best to pull America out of the economic ruin with his New Deal.In addition, you could be a globe-hopping adventurer archaeologist in foreign parts having adventures with the natives while fighting the nazis who are searching for any artifact that would give them the edge in a coming war.

If you're in Europe, chances are you are living in the Nazi or some other fascist version of ruritania, trying to forget your troubles in the Cabaret while the black shirt goons become more bolder and brutal outside as your country slides into a fascist hell. As for the rest of the world, the communists seem to be the greater threat, until those wacky nazis start getting greedy enough to betray their true ambitions (and for those already under communism, like say, some parts of the USSR, well, they're about to learn the wonders of cannibalism, or worse, end up in the gulag for thinking unhappy thoughts about Stalin). At that the Western powers slowly begin to realize that appeasing them is making them worse and they have to stand up to them.

Period lasts from The Wall Street Crash of 1929 up until the beginning of world war ii. Note that in real life there were several sub-periods; the Hoover years, the New Deal years up to 1937, a second recession and a subsequent 1939-41 recovery that was just picking up steam when the war build-up started. Also, large European countries experienced the worst, nightmarish part of the Depression during 1930-1932, with unemployment and widespread poverty, but recovered more or less in the next few years - so for a German living under the nazis 1938 was a prosperous year, not part of a crisis.

It should also be noted that the mass suicides of financial professionals (jumping from office buildings or hanging) of 1929 are a long-standing urban legend — only about twenty people killed themselves immediately after the Crash and about one hundred in all. 23,000 people did kill themselves in the first year though.

Also see: the roaring twenties, the forties, the fifties, the sixties, the seventies, the eighties, the nineties, turn of the millennium, and the new tens for more decade nostalgia.

 See  See 