The Hundred Years War (in French, La Guerre de Cent Ans) was a 116-year period of conflict (of which 79 were active periods of war) between the house of plantagenet who ruled England, Ireland, Wales and much of French territory, and France's house of valois, who owned what was the remainder of the lands. Traditionally set between 1337 and 1453, although the peace was really acknowledged only with the Treaty of Picquigny (1475), in which Louis XI bought off the yorkist king Edward IV to abstain from his plans to renew the war in France.

The conflict was a large-scale succession crisis, which came about after the death of the last French Capetian king, Charles IV the Fair. Originally Edward III grudgingly accepted the succession of Philip VI of Valois, paying homage to him in 1329 and 1331 as feudal overlord for Aquitaine (Guyenne), England's main source of salt and Bordeaux wine. (the english have always loved their claret.) However, when Philip confiscated Guyenne in 1337, Edward reacted by claiming the French throne for himself (by descent through the female line he was more closely related to Charles IV than Philip VI was) and adding the arms of the Kingdom of France to those of England. (This claim and its heraldic manifestation were not renounced until the treaty of Amiens in 1802, a decade after France ceased being a kingdom). Because in the early phase of the war the duchy of Guyenne was the main bone of contention, some historians say that it actually began in 1294, when Philip IV the Fair of France confiscated the duchy for the first time (he had to give it back to Edward I in 1297), leading to an uneasy peace, during which the English burned and razed a newly erected French fortress in 1323.

The war was split into multiple periods and offshoots, and saw knights from both sides make a name for themselves, including England's Prince Edward, aka the black prince, and later France's jeanne d'arc, as well as many major battles, including Sluys, Agincourt, Orleans and Castillon. The conflict also saw multiple Crowning Moments of Awesome (some usually involving the aforementioned Black Prince or Jeanne d'Arc).

As feudal levies were being replaced by professional soldiers and advances in military technology (chain mail being phased out in favour of plate armour, ever more and bigger cannons, etc.) necessitated ever larger expenses for the monarchs, the Hundred Years' War was probably the first European war in which financiers, such as Jacques Coeur, played a crucial part. In 1340 the debts incurred by Edward III caused the bankruptcy of a number of important banks in Florence. While the French gradually developed a more efficient system of regular taxation, the English throughout the war tended to run short of cash despite windfalls such as the three million écus paid out as ransom for King John II of France, captured in the battle of Poitiers, mostly because the English had got it into their heads that taxation required the consent of Parliament, and any attempt by the King to do otherwise would be political suicide. The King's increasing desire to see tax revenues as good as his French counterpart became quite important about 200 years after the end of the war...

The war ended with the majority of the English being forced out of France. however, 100 years of war, pillaging, epidemics and famine had reduced france to a third of its pre-war population. England lost all its holdings on the continent save for Calais, becoming an island nation again for the first time since before the norman invasion, which affected its outlook and development for the rest of the millennium. But first, it had to deal with the wars of the roses.

                                                                                           Too many statues and paintings of Joan of Arc to mention.

 Rodin's "Six Burghers of Calais".

         The 1999 movie  The 1944 and 1989 film adaptations of Shakespeare's      In an season four episode of  The 1999 TV miniseries about Joan of Arc.

 The 1960s French series       Some of the English missions in  The Joan of Arc campaign and the Battle of Agincourt single mission in  Various games dealing specifically with the story of Joan of Arc.

  Various mods for   An episode of 