The first uses of the year 2010 surged late in the 20th century as a twenty minutes into the future date as the year 2000 was getting closer, apart from looking for something more original. The word "New" is used to distinguish the 2010s from the 1910s — arguably unnecessary since there are few people alive who remember the edwardian era (the current oldest living person was 12 when King Edward died, and she's from Japan; the oldest living Brit wasn't even 10).

While the decade chronologically began in 2010, most consider the cultural and social attitudes that have thus far dominated the era to have begun at some point between 2008 and 2012.

This transition, however, has not been uneventful, with the turbulent bush era giving way to the obama administration at a time the 1990's and 2000s economic boom ended with the Great Recession, the worst economic crisis since the great depression. While there have been signs of recovery around the US and Western Europe, these have been erratic for the markets and almost non-existent for the middle and working classes, who have been clamoring for more responsible governments with influential protests like Occupy Wall Street.

However, this has also created a growing polarization with populist-extremist movements like the Independence Party in the UK and the Tea Party in the States, which has capitalized from general anger also fueled by the pyrrhic outcome of the war on terror after Al-Qaeda forces have taken control of many areas even after Osama Bin Laden's death. To make matters worse, terrorism has crept to the west itself, with an onslaught of mass murders bringing on debates on gun control and other security measures.

Other parts of the world have been affected by social unrest. The "Arab Spring" in the Middle East marked mass confrontation against long-standing autocracies with results ranging from quick resolution (like in Tunisia) to civil war (like in Syria) with varying degrees of success. After a brief respite, the US has again become involved in Iraq following the rise of the militant Islamic State in Syria/Levant (also called ISIS, ISIL or simply Islamic State or IS) and their growing influence in the area. NATO/Russian tensions resulting from the confrontation between pro-Russian and pro-European factions in Ukraine reached such a point that many feared a new Cold War. Moscow subsequently regained an international presence in light of allegations of having a hand in the Ukrainian conflict, and this coupled with China's economic rivalry with the States and the end of Japan's "Lost Decade" has arisen calls of an "Asian Century" specially taking in mind the crises of the West.

There has been much discussion lately about internet freedom and personal liberties, prompted by events such as information released by WikiLeaks and the arrest warrant against Julian Assange in 2010, hacktivists Anonymous' involvement in many political affairs and retaliation against anti-digital piracy campaigns, the internet's protest against SOPA and PIPA in 2012, and the leaked info about NSA surveillance by Snowden in 2013.

The NSA scandal marked a turning point on how things are done in politics, with the U.S. gov't (supposedly) abandoning mass espionage and taking a more passive approach to its foreign policy. Locally, recreational marijuana use was legalized in Colorado and Washington in late 2012, and in 2013 the majority of the public in the USA turned in favor of legalizing marijuana for recreation purposes for the first time since national polling on the issue began in 1969. Support for same-sex marriage has been increasing world-wide, and polls show that the clear majority of young people are for it. Following a series of mass shootings, especially one in a Connecticut elementary school, support for gun control has greatly started to overwhelm those of gun rights.

In cultural terms, the "new hippie era" of the late 2000s stretched into the early part of the decade, but hipsters were the most familiar trend of the period, with their unconventional interests/habits, their affinity for mod/new wave style skinny clothes, and their use of sarcasm. "Selfies" and "memes" have also become known on a nationwide basis on most media (i.e. viral music hits like "Gangnam Style" or widespread media campaigns like the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge). Given the uneasy climate of today, a nostalgic wave has begun to sweep in with 1990s pop culture in particular (along with that of the 1960s-'80s) becoming popular once again. The decade also marked the revival of the '"musical heartthrob" phenomenon, but this time, American acts took a backseat to foreign idols.

When it comes to media set in the present day and the future, darker and edgier entertainment reflecting grim headlines and cynical/resigned attitudes has thrived. Zombies and dystopias are the genre fiction elements of choice (i.e. The Hunger Games), dark, complex television dramas like Game of Thrones and Breaking Bad have audiences talking, and even traditionally idealistic franchises such as Superman and Star Trek have been getting grim-and-gritty adaptations of late.

Check out the useful notes page for details on notable aspects of this era thus far.

See Also: the roaring twenties, the great depression, the forties, the fifties, the sixties, the seventies, the eighties, the nineties, and turn of the millennium.

