A reawakening of Europe to the arts and sciences. This era took many distinct forms depending on decade and geographic location. In hollywood history, the renaissance is home to Tudor Mansions and Valois Chateaus, william shakespeare, King Henry the VI and his 8 wives (or was it King Henry the VIII and his 6 wives?), queen elizabeth i, mary of scotland, Charles the V, the Medicis and Borgias, Martin Luther, the Protestant Reformation, global exploration, and leonardo da vinci (who spent nearly all of his time painting The Last Supper or the Mona Lisa and working on that damn "code" of his...)

Actually, since "the Renaissance" as an overall historical phenomenon covered about 300 years, roughly between the fall of constantinople in 1453 and the invention of the first steam engine in the 1750s, it can be portrayed in a variety of different ways depending on the exact year or decade. Its essence also tends to vary according to geography, since the great artistic flowering associated therewith began in north-central Italy sometime in the 1300s (with , Giotto, etc.) and gradually (sometimes very, very slowly) spread throughout the rest of Europe after that. As a history buff, it can be quite annoying to see that most "Renaissance fairs" select England rather than Italy as their model, since England was slow to receive the Renaissance heritage and was still a fairly barbaric nation during the time of Michelangelo. So your average Renaissance fair in America will as likely as not feature a parade of dirty peasants and noisy farm animals - giving the impression that the Renaissance was a lot more backward than it actually was. Of course, it may also be because some people have a hard time in general telling apart the Renaissance from the Middle Ages aesthetics-wise.

How it all beganArguably, the snowball began to roll with the birth of Humanism in the 1300s. Allegedly, the avalanche began with a florentine poet, Francesco Petrarch, when he accidentally stumbled upon a box with old roman letters, written by the known roman orator cicero. Petrarch was, on some level, aware that the contemporary latin, used by the church, needed some kind of revival, because medieval times had corrupted the language. So, Petrarch began to read Cicero`s letters, at first to study the Latin of the classical age, and then to study what Cicero actually wrote about. When he learned that Cicero stressed the point of "humanity" (Humanitatis), the idea of humanism took form, in the head of Petrarch, and of his circle of scholars. The revival of Latin led to the revival of historical science, a more thorough study of history, architecture and art, and then to political dreams and experiments involving a united Italy, a "renaissance" of the Roman age. Thus, a new concept of learning was founded, which led to new science, new political theory, and in turn, a massive upheaval of the medieval society. The pope, puzzled at first, let the humanists struggle on, dumbfounded when he was witness to the excavation of Ancient Rome in his backyard, a little bit frightened when the same humanists began to ask questions around the topics of God and Man, and seriously batshit when the movement in turn led to full religious and social revolution. But then it was too late.

The growing Humanist movement might have changed some ideological perspectives and politics, but had good support from:

 The fall of Constantinople in 1453, which led to a number of greek scholars fleeing westwards, taking their knowledge with them.

 Which in turn closed the Silk Route to the east, and led to sailors trying to find another way to China. Cue Columbus, and circumnavigators like Magellan.

 And then  To top it all, new mercantile power led to more use of money, and a breach with the old natural household. Cue However, unlike the Enlightenment, the Renaissance whether in Italy, or its smaller offshoots in Holland, England, France, Germany and Spain, was the province of intellectual aristocrats and emerging middle-classes, a small minority at best. Protestantism and the Counter-Reformation succeeded in weakening the hold of the Church and brought power to the Royal Courts, but even then it was never a mass movement.

See also: the renaissance and industrial revolution        