The Swingin' Sixties hold a special place in popular culture, mostly because the people who came of age in that decade cannot stop talking about how great it was.

the theme park version of the Swingin' Sixties includes: "free love" and beehive hairdos, hippies and southern sheriffs, psychedelic rock and girl groups, marijuana and the pill, sexy male spies in tuxedos and sexy female spies in leather catsuits (or in miniskirts with go-go boots, or in leather miniskirt catsuits), the charlie brown christmas special, Peter Fonda dropping acid in a graveyard, prim newscasters speaking in clipped tones about those wild youngsters having too much fun, and everybody doing "the twist".

In Britain it includes the rise of Carnaby Street (inevitably accompanied by the kinks' "Dedicated Follower of Fashion"), Mary Quant (the mother who made miniskirts mainstream), Harold Wilson, the satire boom, and a bunch of buccaneer broadcasters demolishing the bbc's radio monopoly. It was all about the music: mop-topped mods and cock-walking rockers all the rage, and the British were cool for the first time in recorded history. Except to the British, who were way into India. The Sixties gave us woodstock, three days of peace and music. And then a little later, Altamont, roughly six hours of skull-cracking brutality set to music.

Of course, much of this great music was made in the context of political unrest: Escalation of the vietnam war was met with a powerful protest movement, admired (or vilified, depending on your viewpoint) to this day for stopping the war dead in its tracks just nine years later. President john f. kennedy narrowly averted an end-of-the-world nuclear showdown, then was shot dead. Medgar Evers, Martin Luther King, Jr. and malcolm x gave voice to the civil rights movement, and then were shot dead. robert f. kennedy renewed the country's spirits with a message of hope and unity, and then was shot dead. Really, the only important political figures who survived the 60s alive were lbj and tricky dick (ronald reagan was also on the rise, but he didn't count just yet). This was the era of cointelpro, with government agents surveilling, infiltrating and discrediting anti-war and other groups to the point of sowing distrust and paranoia among these groups to philip k. dick levels. This was not limited to the United states. France nearly had a revolution in May of 1968, with West Germany having massive protests as well. Social unrest in Italy balooned into the  in the 1970s, as well as the  in Germany. Czechoslavakia attempted a velvet revolution, but the Soviet Union invaded to suppress the social change in 1968. In China, mao zedong launched the Cultural Revolution in 1966, and the country soon fell into chaos.

The Sixties were also the time of the space race - Following the launch of Sputnik in 1957, the first manned launches took place in 1961 (First Russian yuri gagarin in April, followed closely by Alan Shepard in May.) The idea of people actually entering space for the first time led to a new fascination with Science, and a corresponding boom to science fiction. John F. Kennedy ordered the seemingly impossible - putting men on the Moon. After his death, America's resolve was steeled, and the course was set. The route to the Moon was very nearly derailed by the disastrous Apollo 1 fire, claiming the lives of 3 American astronauts in a test. Over a year of unmanned testing went on, trying to repair the mistakes. A return to space flight in late 1968 led to an epic Christmas flyby of the Moon by Apollo 8, one of the most watched television broadcasts in history. Finally, in 1969, Neil Armstrong and buzz aldrin set foot on the Moon, fulfilling Kennedy's mission and marking the first time a human being had walked on another celestial body.

That's what you learn watching TV and movies about the Sixties. No Sixties Montage is complete without them. If not set to jimi hendrix playing "All Along the Watchtower" or "The Star-Spangled Banner", then "Get Together" by the Youngbloods.

But if you watch TV and movies from the Sixties, it's as if half of that stuff never happened. Some of the decade's landmark events, such as the Stonewall Riots in 1969 that kicked off the gay rights movement, were barely acknowledged until the 1990s. Our cultural memory has selected the grateful dead and aretha franklin from a musical landscape that had a lot more Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass than seems sonically possible; and the squares of the first half of the decade actually dressed a lot cooler than the hippies of the latter half, who frankly come off as a little grimy. A standout example of this is The Andy Griffith Show, whose title actor portrays a Southern sheriff and in which not a whisper of the civil rights movement is mentioned.

Nonetheless, the sheer volume of memorable songs, shows, books, and movies from the Sixties is testament to the creativity of its artists. The decade did give us Star Trek: The Original Series, Doctor Who, james bond (the films, anyway), spider-man, fantastic four, woody allen, The Graduate, The Prisoner, the beatles, the rolling stones, motown... the list goes on. Their continued popularity ensures the Sixties will be around for a long time.

Politically speaking, it more or less started with the escalation of  at the beginning of the decade and ended with the Kent State Massacre in 1970. Culturally speaking, it started with the release of alfred hitchcock's Psycho in 1960 (though some argued it was with john f. kennedy's assassination in 1963 that triggered the "Swinging Sixties" part) and ended with the Altamont Free Concert in 1969 (or the breakup of the beatles in early 1970).

See Also: the roaring twenties, the great depression, the forties, the fifties, the seventies, the eighties, the nineties, turn of the millennium and the new tens.

                        For films, see  For books, see  For  For  For Again, for films see films of the 1960s, and for literature see literature of the 1960s.



If you can remember the 60s, you didn't live in them.

If you don't remember the 60's, you lived in them.

If you didn't live in the 60's, you remember them.

Therefore, only people who weren't alive in the 60's can remember the 60's.