The Spanish Inquisition was a state sec of the Catholic Church in the Kingdom of Castile-Leon founded by Queen Isabella in 1478. It was later given jurisdiction over the Crown of Aragon (a union of the kingdoms of Aragon, Valencia, and Catalonia) and the Lordship of Navarra as well and eventually the unified Kingdom of Spain. It was disbanded in 1834.

The Inquisition was founded by Isabella of Castile to stamp out heresy and enforce religious orthodoxy amongst her subjects, particularly in Granada - the not-quite-complete conquest and subjugation of which was used as something of a rallying point which she used to smooth over the cracks caused by the somewhat-unexpected union of the Spanish Kingdoms brought about by her marriage to Ferdinand, King of Aragon. Whom we'll mention in passing just long enough to make it clear who wore the pants, though he did come in handy at times and by all accounts was a decent husband who could be trusted to get things done. Ferdinand and Isabella are still Spain's most popular monarchs.

Granada was the last remnant of the Muslim kingdom of Al-Andalus, which had once spanned very nearly the entire Iberian peninsula. With its conquest, the Reconquista — the reclamation of Spain for Christianity — was complete. Shortly afterwards, the Muslim population of Spain was given a choice: convert to Christianity, or leave for North Africa. Many tens of thousands left, or were forcibly evicted. The Jewish population was later given the same choice. Isabella thought that it was only fair that those subjects who had effectively agreed to be loyal, Christian subjects would take a generation or so to learn the new ways. After that, the Inquisition could be used to educate the ethnically Moorish population about Catholic orthodoxy if need be. Until then, the Inquisition got started handling its standard fare of cases, the bread and butter it would chew on for the next three hundred years. That is to say, the Inquisition would tour around the cities and larger towns and address the issues that were generally the reserve of Ordinaries (church courts) everywhere — blasphemy, immorality, sexual immorality, and religious ignorance generally, and ignorance, illiteracy, corruption, and (sexual) immorality amongst the clergy.

By the end of the grace period, a significant minority of Moorish and Jewish subjects were Christian in name only, using 'conversion' as an excuse to stay on in Spain. The degree to which this minority bothered to maintain this illusion varied, but in some areas of central Granada, Church attendance could be measured by the dozens per annum, and ignorance of the basic tenets of Catholicism was rife. The Inquisition more or less gave up on ever addressing the huge numbers of Moorish and Jewish people living in the villages and hamlets of Granada and under the protection of Estate Lords who used them as cheap labour in Aragon. Lobbying instead for a further expulsion, they eventually got it a century on from the first expulsion and there was a second expulsion of all Moors from Granada. Most of those expelled went on to become urban poor in Spain's towns and cities, though those that could afford it generally went back to Moorish Africa. There was a third and final expulsion of all Moorish subjects from Castile-Leon after this, when it became clear that the Moorish minorities were not being assimilated and were in fact causing trouble in the locales they had migrated to.

The Inquisition's surveillance exclusively focused on people in urban centres, particularly people of prominence or importance — a strategy of limited resources more than anything else. The Inquisition was to some extent used as a political weapon by the Crown, which had few other means of dealing with its political enemies amongst the Clergy and the Civic Authorities, who administered over two-thirds of the urban population of Spain virtually independently from the Crown. To this end, cultural hang-overs like daily bathing (a Moorish custom) or not eating pork were (infamously) used as the basis for accusations of false conversion. In the same manner, the possession of certain texts — a list of banned books was eventually drawn up to this end — was used to support accusations of heresy, protestantism, anti-monarchism, &c. This had the effect of getting many relatively harmless intellectuals into trouble, but the Inquisition's role in preventing the outbreak of Protestantism in Spain has been called everything from 'marginal but useful' to 'critical and essential'.

Most of these people brought up on charges of heresy, heretical ideas, dangerous ideas, &c were asked to recant their sins and accept religious re-education. The afterlife and one's (subjects') place(s) in it being prized above all else — what's an earthly life of thirty years to eternity? — this was big stuff. The Inquisition witnessed very few witch trials; this is not just because they dealt only with a small proportion of the peninsula's (minority) urban population at intervals of decades or more — some towns for which there exist records were not visited more than a few times during the entire period of the Inquisition's existence — but because what trials there were ceased in the latter 16th Century.

The concept that the Inquisition burned witches, however, is a myth. The Inquisition ruled, then, that so-called witchcraft did not exist and that all self-identified 'witches' were insane. They also denounced the backwardness and unorthodoxy of witch-hunters — the Inquisition was not so much interested in enforcing 'old' Catholicism as it was in promoting the 'new' Catholicism of the Catholic Reformation or Counter-Reformation.

Unfortunately, this did not stop civic authorities — who had their own court systems independent of the Church and the Crown — and groups of angry villagers from rounding up 'witches' and hanging them anyway. Said authorities and mobs did not, sadly, keep records, so the actual number of Spanish people killed as witches remains unknown. That said, it is generally assumed to be lower than that in, say, France.

A common misconception is that the Spanish Inquisition was deployed overseas — it was not. There are contemporary, sensationalist, rumours of the Spanish Inquisition burning people left right and centre in the Netherlands during the course of the Reformation and Eighty Years' war. This was, however, the work of the Dutch Inquisition in the Spanish Netherlands, who were again in many cases using heresy as an excuse to deal with Dutch Nationalists and other politically troublesome individuals. It should also be pointed out that the Inquisition under Torquemada argued to save the books and documents taken in the Conquest of Mexico and South America, to sadly little avail.

Some points about the actual Spanish Inquisition:

 The  Historians now estimate that of all trials only two percent may have actually ended with execution. A study of the timeframe 1540 to 1700 found documents for 44,674 cases with roughly 1500 death sentences. Furthermore as trials tended to be lengthy and wardens poor a surprising number of the sentenced managed to flee the country and so the sentences resulted in 826 executions in persona, i.e. burning the heretic, and 778 in effigie, i.e. burning a strawman because the convict was unavailable. Estimates for the total number of executions in persona range between 1000 and 1500.

 They didn't really burn books and the stuff that was on their banned list was still widely available. Most Golden Age authors ran into them at least once.

 Unusually among the multiple Inquisitions established in different parts of Europe, final authority and control rested with the monarchs rather than the Church hierarchy. It quite often functioned as a simple tool of repression, a sort of medieval secret police working for the Crown. This rather ironically means you could argue it was the  The Holy Office of the Inquisition is now known as the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. Amongst the most recent Prefects of this office was one Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger... known from April 2005 to February 2013 as  One of the main reasons for the villain status of the Inquisition: Their host country was nearly continually at war with primarily Protestant nations such as England and the Netherlands, where there was more freedom of speech (for its time) while printing presses and popular literature were much more common. This meant that at the beginning they criticized the Spanish Inquisition's poor job on executions and conversions. When the Inquisition became a bit harsher, they went Note the "dunce cap" being worn by the heretic in the picture. This was standard practice to identify the heretic on his/her way to the stake, and lived on as the "dunce's cap" of schoolroom legend - punishment for a classroom nonconformist.

 The classic film  One episode of  A  In Voltaire's  The opera  A parable told by Ivan in  Inspired the Quisition in the  The protagonist of the  Spoofed in a musical number in  Also mentioned in  Kage Baker's novel  Depicted as a cancer on an idealized body politic in  Depicted as a torturous game show sketch, "Convert or Die!", in the   Henry was pursued by a priest in   Spanish series of novels  The  Mentioned in the early books of     The Holy See of  Paul Luther is detained by the Inquisition in  The Inquisition is still around in the  They're also still around in  Lang Lang     While  Features prominently in any of Jack Chick's   The subject of "White Hammer" by  In  In  What a show!