world war i aside, the Indo-Chinese conflicts were the most controversial and divisive conflicts that the Anglosphere has ever been a part of and are second only to algeria in the Francosphere. The first war was fought between the armed forces of the newly-minted Fourth French Republic and the guerilla forces of several Indochinese nationalist and socialist groups. Post-independence, the second war was fought by the USA, Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, several Southeast-Asian countries and the forces of South Vietnam to prop up the latter's dictatorship as a bulwark against communism. Against them were arrayed the Soviet- and somewhat Chinese-backed (with some assistance from Cuba and North Korea—it's complicated) forces of the communist dictatorship of North Vietnam, and the National Liberation Front for South Vietnam (better known as the Viet Cong)—a communist guerrilla force operating in South Vietnam. The third Indo-Chinese war was a series of conflicts from the late 1970s to the end of the coldwar, including a war between Vietnam and anti-Vietnamese factions in Cambodia, and a short "punitive war" started by China against Vietnam followed by a decade-long border skirmish. But first, some simplified background details.

Compare holiday in cambodia.

Important Note: As if you couldn't tell by this article, this war and its outcome is still a very strong point of contention in the USA more than 40 years later, even among people who weren't even alive at the time! Along with The Civil Rights Movement, hippies, the 'watergate scandal', and all the lingering cultural debates of the sixties and the seventies, it was/is one of the key base breakers in modern american politics. Communists, Socialists, Anarchists, and Modern Liberals (as well as most Libertarians, "Paleoconservatives", and many moderate right-wingers) still consider the war a senseless waste of human life and point to the 'My Lai Massacre', President-for-life Diem's dictatorial rule and 'Operation Phoenix' as evidence that there wasn't much difference between the "good guys" and the dirty communists. The USA's Conservatives, Nationalists, and Old-Style liberals continue to believe that USA - and France before them - would have won if not for the (left-wing) public's 'betrayal' of the country's military forces, that the banana republic of South Vietnam was still a lighter shade of grey than its Communist counterpart, and contend that more people died because the USA left than were killed by the USA's troops or by its enemies during the war  and would have been killed if the war had continued.

To cut a long story short, there's not enough evidence to decisively rule whether things would have gotten better if the USA had continued trying to kill all the rebels and suspected-socialists in Indochina for another year, or five years, or decade(s). What is known is that it was fought between a corrupt kleptocratic dictatorship and a brutal stalinist-communist dictatorship that cost between 882 000 and 1.8 million people their lives, and left another 2 million maimed or crippled.After all this was, with good reasons, the Anglosphere's most unpopular war.

Be on alert, the rule of cautious editing judgement regulations apply in the non-YMMV discussion-sectors. For Vietnam the country, click here.

