The Year 2000. Flying cars, androids, faster-than-light space travel... oh wait, we don't have any of that yet. On the plus side, our computers didn't explode, after all. While New Years' 2000 came in with a bang, attitudes from the nineties pretty much lingered for the first year. For the United States, the decade culturally started on September 11th, 2001 with the terrorist attacks on new york city and washington, dc, which not only launched the United States into two wars, but continues to be a lingering specter in global politics. It is possible this decade may have ended culturally in late 2008, which saw the start of the worst economic crisis since the great depression, followed two months later by the election of barack obama as President.

See the war on terror for the major wars of this decade. Note that, since the war on terror has defined American and NATO-sphere foreign policy for almost all of this time, this decade has marked the arrival of Middle Eastern civilizations as societies to know about. For example, the Persian Gulf city of dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, went through its boom during this decade.

The decade was a hard one for the United States, whose population suffered from, in quick succession: a controversial presidential election where the winner didn't win the popular vote, but did win in the electoral college; its worst ever terrorist attack, resulting in about 3,000 deaths; the Patriot Act undermining their civil liberties; two somewhat unpopular wars, one started on what turned out to be blatant lies; the worst electrical black out in American history; the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster, the second in American history and the beginning of the end of the country's manned space program; another controversial presidential election; the catastrophic flooding of New Orleans thanks to Hurricane Katrina and the failure of the federal government to properly respond said flooding; a surge in both aforementioned wars as it became very clear that things were not going as planned; the gradual transformation from the largest government budget surplus in American history, to the largest government budget deficit in American history; and the start of the worst economic crisis since the great depression, with millions of Americans unemployed and many more struggling at the decade's end. There were also issues which stretched out for roughly the entire decade, such as the worst gas crisis since the seventies, with gas prices quadrupling from 2000 to 2008; skyrocketing income inequality; a crisis over the increasingly large wave of illegal immigrants crossing the border; a continued trend of worse education performances compared to much of the rest of the developed world; the dollar losing value compared to other currencies along with other signs of the US losing its global economic power; and widespread polarization over issues such as global warming, gay rights, religion, health and obesity, and other issues. This naturally lead to growing feelings of cynicism and insecurity, which is reflected in the growing trend towards darker and edgier entertainment.

Of course, on the other side of the coin, a lot of the decade's entertainment instead went in the direction of escapism. Much of the decade's culture can roughly be described as a retread of either the eighties or the fifties, depending on who you ask. as if overcompensating for the insecurity they now felt, the American public took comfort in materialism and conspicuous consumption. The "mcmansion" became the dominant paradigm for new homes, and enormous suvs, after getting their start in the late '90s, came to rule over the car market, despite oil concerns, and forget electric cars. seriously, forget they ever existed and buy an SUV. in fact, the car companies were so eager to make the consumer forget about electric cars that those produced in the nineties were not only canceled, they were repossessed by car companies and crushed, lest one get away to make the rest of their cars look bad. It wasn't until 2011 and the debut of the Chevrolet Volt and Nissan Leaf that electric cars would return to the roads. The tax breaks that, under Clinton, would've gone to electrics, now under Bush went to the heaviest cars, and the SUVs of this decade were certainly heavy cars. Every genre of music, from glam rap to post-grunge, idolized lifestyles of excess and debauchery, with songs about how great it is to get drunk, have sex, and waste money ruling the air waves. Conversely, darker and edgier became the norm in music aimed at teens with a shift from squeaky-clean teen idols to pop-rock bands such as good charlotte, simple plan and jimmy eat world in the early part of the decade. This genre exploded in 2005 with the rise of fall out boy, my chemical romance and similar acts, all of whom shared a focus on lyrics about serious topics such as illness, sexual infidelity, and America's unhealthy obsession with tabloid stars. The subculture associated with the genre, known as emo, took high schools by storm with its sideswept bangs, skinny jeans, and heavy eye makeup even as artists tried to distance themselves from or even denounced the term being associated with their work - at different points members of panic! at the disco and my chemical romance actually called emo "bullshit" and "a pile of shit," respectively. Not that it would matter much, since in 2008 Fall Out Boy's Folie à Deux showed a drastic shift in the band's sound and was met with mediocre commercial success, which started a chain reaction. By 2009, pop-punk began its falll from the mainstream thanks to several factors: bands drastically changing their sound, breaking up or going on hiatus (powerhouses Panic! At the Disco and Fall Out Boy both did this, although Panic's original sound returned on their third album), oversaturation by an endless string of one-hit wonders (including one performed by a band Miley Cyrus' brother was in), and the replacement of "emo" as popular music with electronic pop (Ke$ha, Lady Gaga, Katy Perry) and as a culture with the "scene" trend - basically emo with lots of '80s-inspired big hair, makeup, and neon. If you couldn't afford a new flat-screen and surround sound system, then you could just buy it on credit and pay it off later, especially if it was that segway scooter that george w. bush can't drive, and, while it wasn't the only cause of economic meltdown, it certainly didn't help. Media technology continued to evolve. CD gave way to mp3 in the music sphere. DVD put VHS out of business early in the decade, only to have Blu-Ray and HD-DVD, in a re-enactment of the eighties VHS vs Betamax debate, battle it out over who got to replace DVD at the end of the decade. Blu-Ray won, but instead of replacing DVD the two instead co-existed, perhaps due to the economic downturn.

The blockbuster age of hollywood reached previously inconceivable heights - pretty much every year at least two movies would gross over $750 million and, by the end of the decade, at least one each year would surpass the billion dollar mark. Thanks to new computer technology, most of these were incredibly expensive, CGI-packed extravaganzas, with superhero movies (like Spider-Man and The Dark Knight) and fantasy epics (such as The Lord of the Rings trilogy and the Harry Potter series) being the dominant genres in terms of box office success. Much of the reason why studios began to concentrate so hard on these types of movies was to keep drawing in an audience despite the advent of digital piracy during this decade; if there was so much stuff on screen, the experience would be lost if it wasn't seen on a big screen. Pretty similar to how studios in the fifties tried to keep audiences away from television with 3-D and widescreen, really. Thanks to the size and scope of these films, smaller movies like comedies and romances lost their box office power, with some major figures in the movie world wondering if soon cinema would be entirely dominated by these colossal spectacles and people would lose interest in more down-to-earth movies. However, digital piracy, netflix, and movie websites such as rotten tomatoes have brought attention to indie movies and foreign films which many people wouldn't have previously discovered, even if this didn't help these movies make a profit in theaters. Well, with one major exception - the martial arts film Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon became the first foreign-language movie to gross over $100 million in the United States.

reality took over tv, with Survivor and American Idol in the US and Big Brother and Pop Idol/The X Factor in Britain launching hundreds of imitators across an ocean of reality TV subgenres, helped along by the explosion of cable and satellite television as a major outlet for original programming. Celebrity came to be defined not by an entertainer's accomplishments as a musician, actor, athlete, etc., but by the number of paparazzi following his or her every move and the amount of tabloid press that he or she had. It was something that could be achieved for seemingly nebulous reasons, as shown by the inexplicable rise to superstardom of such people as paris hilton and kim kardashian, who built media empires on their status as socialites and reality TV stars. The societal implications of this were not lost on the world, with charlie brooker in Britain, the chaser in Australia, and The Soup and The Daily Show in the US leading a wave of shows and blogs that satirized and parodied the decade's culture.

And speaking of blogs, this was also the time in which the internet really became a part of society at large, instead of being limited to computer geeks and Usenet groups. Everyone got connected, with many people owning media storage devices, having access to the internet, etc. If you didn't have a computer with internet access, you were left behind. Technology was always getting better and less expensive via Moore's law, and you could walk into a department store and buy a computer which was at least a million times more powerful than the ones that put man on the moon. video games finally started to gain mainstream recognition, especially near the end of the decade, with the release of the wii. Games became darker and edgier, with much more mature storylines and realistic plots, although how mature and realistic they are is subject to debate (some see it as a repeat of the dark age of comic books). Meanwhile, the sports gaming industry was effectively monopolized by electronic arts.

Gaming's turn towards realism was reflected in speculative fiction. There was a great demand for more "realistic" depictions of what happens if we were to actually meet aliens or fight robots. If we are higher tech, there is a good chance that humans are the real monsters, and when we have the inferior tech, don't expect to come out of the situation alive or overcoming against bad odds. This shift is perhaps best exemplified by LOST and the remake of Battlestar Galactica, two of the defining sci-fi shows of the decade, which were both heavily focused on character-driven drama, philosophy, and gritty realism (the latter especially in BSG's case).

A lot of humor consists of crossing the line twice, and things which would have caused the moral guardians to have strokes just a few years earlier are now seen as just mildly offensive. As such, an obsession with Japan and awareness of East Asian affairs (especially with china's rapid rise as a world power) is becoming popular in the US once more. Movies tended to be more about adventure and self discovery than action and blowing things up. Of course, when you consider what started the decade off, it's kind of understandable why.

Note that this was only named as such because few can decide on what to call the 2000-2009 period. In Britain and Australia, this decade is often called the Noughties, as the word "nought" is another word for "zero." However, the word "nought" has faded from American English, which means that, to American ears, the term "Noughties" sounds like the more snicker-inducing "Naughties."  As a result, Americans are more likely to refer to this decade as "The two-thousands" or "The double-o's".

See Also: the edwardian era, the roaring twenties, the great depression, the forties, the fifties, the sixties, the eighties, the nineties and the new tens.

Now has useful notes and ymmv pages.

                                                    For Film, see:   For Literature, see                