The Twilight Of The Old West is a trope invoked by stories depicting the changes that took place in Western North America and Mexico during the closing days of the wild west and the beginning days of the new old west. This is roughly the period between 1890 (the year the U.S. Census Bureau announced the closing of the frontier and the Wounded Knee Massacre occurred thereby marking the end of the "Indian Wars") and 1920 (which marked the official end of the mexican revolution when guerilla/bandit forces operated along the US/Mexican border and the beginning of Prohibition in the U.S. which closed the last of the old West saloons).

In stories set during the Twilight Of The Old West, there will still be many elements of the wild west present like cowboys, gunfighters, outlaws, bank and train robberies, saloons, and cattle drives but, as you get deeper into the 20th century, they'll gradually become less common. Probably the most noticeable change is the shift away from horses as a mode of transportation in favor of trains and—especially—automobiles. The replacement of gas and oil lights in favor of electricity follows close behind as an indication of progress as do the appearances of new inventions like telephones, motion pictures, phonographs, and airplanes.

While technological changes play a major role, the Twilight Of The Old West mainly deals with changes in society and how they affect those who still feel tied to the "old ways" of the wild west. For example, bringing justice to an area now means criminals are dealt with by sheriffs, police, judges, and jails rather than vigilante justice. Also, cattle drives become more infrequent and smaller with the end of the open range and the spread of the railroad system beyond the hub cities that were usually the destination of such drives.

Compare riding into the sunset. the magic goes away can be considered the corresponding fantasy trope.

Sub-trope of the western and end of an age that overlaps with the latter stage of the wild west and the beginning of the new old west. Opposite of dawn of the wild west. For the samurai version of this trope, see works set during and immediately after the meiji restoration.

 Part of  Originally, the adventures of Cinnamon in   This trope is a theme in  Hergé completely failed to understand this trope when making       Though still set squarely in the Old West,     The spaghetti western     In  In    The prologue of  The story "The Long High Noon" in the anthology      The short-lived 1971 Western series   The series  The   The  Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show, which toured from 1883 to 1913, was a result of the closing of the West. There were all of these people still alive who had lived through the wildest days of the West, which had finally been tamed and fenced in. So the only way left to experience the    