The twenty-to-thirty-year (or sometimes more!) lag between reality and TV-land. Shows that first ran in the nineties often reminisced the seventies, shows in the eighties carry a lot of cultural baggage from the sixties, shows that first ran in the seventies hark back to the fifties, and shows in the fifties and the sixties had its nostalgic setups between the gay nineties and the roaring twenties (probably because the '30s and '40s hadn't featured many things people wanted to be nostalgic about). At the start of the 21st century, this can be seen in how some works seem to suggest that they took place in the eighties and steadily into the nineties when they are supposed to be set in the present-day or a little earlier. In such settings, the "cool kids" still rap and skateboard and the lingo is still totally radical jive turkey (even in cases where it was not relevant to begin with). In many cases, it's clear that someone hasn't done the research.

It happens because TV writers tend to be busiest in their late 30s and early 40s, and (like everyone else) their tastes and preferences were formed in their teens and early 20s; by the time they reach the big time, what is modern to them is actually 20 years out of date. A desire to write what you know also plays an important part. This is closely related to the fact that such franchises as Transformers, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, and Masters of the Universe are getting revamped ~20 years after the peaks of their popularity; in fact, G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra (2009) was a revival of G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero from the 1980s, which was, in turn, a revamp of the original Joes from the 1960s.

Another reason for this trope is a long tradition of executive meddling. Until relatively recently, American entertainment media was heavily censored compared to that of most other cultures, first by the hays code (which wasn't relaxed until the mid-1950s at the earliest and not scrapped entirely until 1968) for movies and then by the Federal Communications Commission (whose standards weren't truly liberalized until the mid-1990s) for television. That is why, until about 1996 or so, American entertainment was often behind the times in portraying political, social, or cultural change; it just wasn't politically correct to show a lot of stuff, regardless of whether it was actually happening.

While television shows of the 90s, 2000s and 2010s are generally better at portraying their respective time periods than shows from the 50s-80s (no doubt due to how much easier it became to find information during the late-80s/early-90s, as well as the relaxation of censorship described just above), they still aren't without their fair share of dated slang and cultural tropes. Modern-day kid shows, in particular, still seem to fall victim to this. Even though information about modern-day kid culture is quite easy to obtain now, with all the books and websites devoted to it (not to mention networks like Nickelodeon).

long runners that use comic book time are susceptible in various ways, such as the artifact. If your hero is a thirty-year-old musician whose catchphrase is "LOL" and who collects CDs, and she hasn't changed at all (including age) twenty years later, then she'll be Twenty Years Behind.

See also pac man fever, totally radical, and popularity polynomial. Contrast present day past, anachronism stew, and purely aesthetic era. An unintentional period piece is what results when, instead of being behind the times, a work of fiction is all too obviously of its time. disco dan is a character who personifies this trope.

