

This section deals with events in Europe and Africa. In summary:

 It starts off in August 1939 with Germany and the Soviet Union occupying Poland in just a month, the Soviet Union later waging and eventually ending an inconclusive war against Finland that winter. In April 1940 Germany seizes Denmark and Norway to preempt the Allies' attempts to strong-arm Sweden into embargoing Germany, and on 10 June executes a crazed but amazingly effective two-month campaign through Belgium and into France. Italy joins the war on Germany's side and by the 22nd of June, Germany occupies all of Norway, The Low Countries and northern France. Having suffered a coup by military leaders Marshal Pétain and Admiral Darlan, the French Government votes itself out of existence by giving Pétain absolute power. Pétain's "Southern" or "Vichy" France becomes a subservient rump-state to Germany. Despite British attempts to capture and/or destroy it so it cannot be used to aid a German invasion of Britain, Germany refrains from seizing the remainder of the French fleet in return for Pétain's cooperation. Pétain and General Franco both refuse Hitler's offers to join the Axis Of Steel  Hitler is furious when Mussolini declares war on Greece despite his army being woefully unprepared for it, to the point of his forces not actually being in position to invade when he does so. Germany gets involved to bail Italy out of Greece because they fear that Britain will use Greek airfields to bomb the oilfields and refineries of Ploesti in Romania - Germany's source of virtually all petroleum products besides minor oil-wells in Hungary and limited-capacity synthetic plants. Germany and Italy turn on Yugoslavia when the latter country suffers an internal coup and backs out of their alliance, and German forces go on to help Italy win their war against Greece despite the Commonwealth's feeble efforts to stop them. British Commonwealth Germany launches Operation  By late June the Soviets' Summer Offensive Operation has bogged down trying to attack Army Group South. On 28 June 1942, Germany's Army Group South executes  Although  The  On 6 June 1944, the Allies implement Operation  Upon Churchill's request, Stalin makes a big show of bringing the Vistula-Oder offensive forward by eight days to 12 January. Its goal of taking Berlin (which was too ambitious anyway) is downgraded to merely taking bridgeheads across the Oder to facilitate a final push on the German capital later. The inexperienced and ill-equipped German forces being outnumbered by more than 4:1 (2.2 million to 450,000) it succeeds with minimal losses and Auschwitz extermination camp is liberated, but results in the "Prussian Balcony" that holds out for another couple of months because of extremely heavy fortification and fanatical German resistance such as at Königsburg. Stalin and Churchill hash out the definitive Soviet-Allied zones in Europe as Hitler orders one last counter-offensive, Operation 