The War of 1812 (1812-1815) is one of the most popular wars to ever grace North America. The Americans think they won it, the Canadians think they won it, and the British have no idea they fought in it. It's also one of the Americas' more unusual wars: It's called the War of 1812 - but it lasted nearly three years. The USA's casus belli for declaring war on Britain was the latter's conscription of American sailors to fight in the napoleonic wars—which, in a fit of tragic irony, had all but ended even as the declaration of war was in transit across the Atlantic. And its most famous battle was fought weeks after the ink on the peace treaty was dry. In the US it has been called the Second Revolutionary War. In Canada it is remembered as the war in which Canada stopped the US trying to annex them, and as said, the British don't even remember it happened - but then again they had a certain frenchman to deal with at the time.

In fact, nobody outside North America knows it happened. This is because an altogether more expensive, expansive, ideologically charged, bloody, and important series of wars had been going on elsewhere for some time. There were more troops (150 000) on the field when emperor napoleon i won at Austerlitz in 1805, for instance, than there were English-speaking soldiers (87 000) in all of the Americas in 1815. Napoleon's 1813 defeat by the Sixth Anti-Napoleonic Coalition at the three-day battle of Leipzig, the greatest gunpowder-battle ever (at the time), involved more than 600 000 soldiers with over 2000 artillery pieces; the one-day Battle of New Orleans, the largest battle of the War of 1812, involved just 15 000 men and 16 cannons. These great conflicts of the age (to European civilization) were the french revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, which basically concerned the attempts of the Kingdom-turned-Republic-turned-Empire of France to alternately defend herself against and then dominate all of Europe over two decades (1789-1815) of near-constant warfare. Indeed, the year 1812 itself is most strongly associated with Napoleon's catastrophically unsuccessful invasion of Russia, the decimation of his Grande Armée there (i.e. the decisive turning point in the war against him), and tchaikovsky's famous overture (with the cannon fire at the end) commemorating Russia's part in these events.

Bernard Cornwell, author of the Sharpe series, summed up the war very well: "What was to be expected in each theatre was inverted, with the exception of the major battles: The British inflicted a string of defeats on the numerically superior American Army, but lost the Battles of New Orleans and Plattsburgh. The US Navy inflicted a series of defeats on the far more powerful Royal Navy, but failed to prevent them raiding the Chesapeake and burning Washington."

A more comprehensive article and links to other related articles can be found on the other wiki.

Not to be confused with the other war of 1812.

                                                                                             The  An episode of  The first book of  College Humor spoofs the relative obscurity of this war  The  Three Dead Trolls in a Baggie made a song called "The War of 1812", which is often  Several novels of the   A singer named Johnny Horton had a big hit with "The Battle of New Orleans" in 1959.

