The War of the Spanish Succession was the last great war (and the last war, period) fought by France under the reign of the Sun King, Louis XIV.

The war pitted Habsburg Austria, Great Britain, the Dutch Republic, Prussia, various German states and Portugal against France, Spain and Bavaria.

This conflict started over the line of succession that ended when the last Habsburg King of Spain, Charles II, died heirless in 1700. His will left Philip, younger son of louis xiv's heir apparent Louis the Grand Dauphin, Charles' grandnephew and, at the time, Duc d'Anjou, as the heir to the Spanish throne. If Philip refused, the crown would be passed to Charles, Archduke of Austria (and the future Holy Roman Emperor Charles VI). This led to a succession crisis and eventually war, with Austria and its allies supporting Charles, and France and its allies supporting Philip.

The majority of the fighting took part in Spain and the Low Countries, as well as in Germany. For most of the war the commander of the allied forces was John Churchill, created Duke of Marlborough because of his brilliance (and his wife's friendship with the Queen).

In North America this conflict is known as Queen Anne's War, named for the ruling British monarch at the time. The biggest consequence of the conflict was Great Britain capturing Acadia (now in parts of Nova Scotia and Maine). The French settlers were forced out and migrated south to Louisiana where they became known as the Cajun people. About 15 years after the war ended Great Britain chose to settle the Georgia colony with debtors in order to protect Charleston from overland invasion from Spanish controlled Florida.

It ended with the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713, which ended hostilities between the French-led alliance and Britain and most of its allies. Austria continued to fight practically on its own, but due to changing fortunes of war was forced to swallow the bitter pill in the treaty of Rastatt in 1714. Philip was recognized as king of Spain, but he was required to renounce all claims to succesion to the French throne for himself and his descendants. In addition, Spain lost the Spanish Netherlands (modern Belgium), Naples, Milan and Sardinia (all in modern-day Italy) to Austria, Sicily to Savoy, and gibraltar and Minorca to Great Britain (Minorca was eventually returned, but Gibraltar is still a sore spot for Spain to this day).



Tropes Set in the Period:

                         The main campaign in 