The wars of the roses were a series of dynastic civil wars set in england between 1455 and 1485. They originated in a struggle between descendants of two of King Edward III plantagenet's eight sons. Henry of the house of lancaster stole the throne from his cousin, Edward's first grandson Richard II. Although his house had a couple of strong monarchs (see henry v), Henry VI turned out to be a strange boy with mental issues. He was challenged for the throne by the rival house of york (a cousin line descended from Edward III). After thirty years of conflict, in which almost all of the Lancastrians died, henry vii from the house of tudor was crowned. He was a cousin of the Lancastrian side, and married a daughter of the Yorkist faction, uniting the two sides. However some historians claim this wasn't the end of the Wars, as there were still threats to Henry from Yorkist Pretenders, which a lot of the nobility didn't seem ready to help him against.

On a side note, the "Wars of the Roses" were never called that by contemporaries. While the name does come from the white and red rose badges of the Yorkists and Lancastrians, respectively, it wasn't until shakespeare and walter scott that the conflict became known by its now common name. Earlier commentators might have called it the English Civil War (a name later taken by a rather more ideological conflict) or perhaps as the War of the English Succession (which later became a now-disused name for the nine years' war). Until world war one, the Battle of Towton was the bloodiest single day for British soldiery; around 28,000 men perished on those snowy fields, a record that would not be surpassed until the opening day of the Battle of the Somme 450 years later.

   The first season of  Philippa Gregory's  In Terry Pratchett's  The second duology of  Another fantasy retelling is the "War of the Lions" that drives the plot of the original  ...and yet another in    Sharon Penman's      The video game                                                                                                            