Weird Science is the name for the style of storytelling made famous by the science fiction "pulp" (named after the poor quality paper on which they got printed) magazines of the 1930s and 1940s. By the 1950s, sales fell off, probably because of the advent of television. A few of these magazines had covers far trashier than the contents, others reveled in cheese with the writers entertaining no delusions that they created great art.

Astounding Science Fiction (later Analog), Unknown (also known as Unknown Worlds), and Galaxy published generally high quality fiction. Amazing Stories, Weird Tales and Startling Stories and others occupied the middle strata while Captain Future, Planet Stories and many, many others published the more shamelessly trashy material. (Unknown and Weird Tales actually published mostly fantasy and horror, though individual science fiction stories and elements would get incorporated in the stories too.) They specialized in imaginative stories of science fiction, with the less highbrow magazines in particular having a good deal more "Boys Own Adventure" flair. The actual name Weird Science comes from EC Comics comic book, which tended to use the karmic twist ending or, more rarely, the cruel twist ending. (EC also published Weird Fantasy, actually another science fiction comic, and merged the two titles later.)

The stories featured exotic worlds and gee-whiz gadgetry, buxom space babes, two-fisted heroes and, most important, plenty of gee-whiz gadgetry; it is this last that can be called Weird Science. Many of the most notable names in science fiction and fantasy got their start writing in these magazines, and, as the century progressed, the standards both for storytelling and scientific plausibility increased, although an exciting story was always more important than a realistic one.

Their influence is still widely felt: any science fiction that involves derring-do with robots, rocketships and rayguns and doesn't worry about technical realism can be said to use Weird Science, but it is especially likely to be found in planetary romance.

Note also that Weird Science is not the same as hollywood science; the former throws realism to the wind in order to create spectacle whereas the latter comes from not bothering to get things right that could have been. They often have similar effects, but different causes; Weird Science springs from rule of cool, whereas hollywood science grows from poor research. (The extreme case, most often found in comedy, is it runs on nonsensoleum.)

Not to be confused with the movie, series or song of the same name, though the premise certainly is.



Weird Science tropes:

                                          settings where Weird Science is likely to be found:

     As noted above, the   The      The  The  As mentioned above this was a staple of the 30s and 40s pulps.   The  Empire City in A. Lee Martinez'       The "Captain Proton" adventures on  Homaged in the   While the movie was this to a lesser extent, the TV show  This is one of the main features of     Gnomes in many    In   In      The simulated "Spacemonauts" segments of   Anything Frederick and Doctor Franky create in   The   