Once upon a time, in 1918, a war between two alliances - the French-led 'Entente Cordiale' and the German-led 'Central Powers'- and the richest and most powerful empires and nation-states on earth ended. It was the biggest, bloodiest, most expensive, most disruptive, most damaging and most traumatising war the world had ever seen. It left millions dead, maimed, shell-shocked, dispossessed, impoverished, starving and bitter. Victory brought relief more than it did elation or sorrow, and in the aftermath the victorious powers resolved to form a better world from the ashes of the old - albeit in more or less exactly the same image as that of the old, save the addition of more and worse economic and ethnic problems. This was a war that crushed attitudes, destroyed countless lives, brought down four great(-ish) empires and in its conclusion sowed the seeds of further conflict and suffering. The extent to which it did all these things made the First World War a war the likes of which the world had never seen... but the world was yet to see the last of this magnitude of conflict.Formerly known as "The Great War", or as "the war to end all wars" or even "The World War" until the sequel broke out. Ironically, the napoleonic wars had previously been known as The Great War until this one broke out. This was quite possibly the most unpopular widespread conflict in the history of civilization in hindsight, and even at the time it faced serious support issues. It perhaps comes a close second in the Anglosphere for the vietnam war, and by some measures manages to beat Algeria in the Francosphere (when the speaker knows, and can bear, to bring the latter up). in hindsight, the final resolution of the war has been come to be dubbed "the peace to end all peaces."

Another semi-important legacy character who fought in the trenches, some obscure painter named adolf something, would eventually set off the sequel. After the high ratings and widespread critical acclaim for the first two installments rumors did abound at one point about a second sequel, but it appears to be stuck in development hell and there seems to be little interest in backing the project given the likely costs. A long-running spin-off sidequel of a different genre was made, the ending of which more or less tied up all the loose ends and acted as a grand finale for the entire franchise. So, if the franchise is ever revived, it'll be a remake rather than a sequel.

