One of the oldest genres in Chinese literature, wǔxiá (武侠 — literally "martial-arts chivalry" or "martial arts heroes", and pronounced roughly woo-seeah in mandarin) stories are tall tales of honourable warriors (侠 xiá) fighting against evil, whether it be an individual villain, or a corrupt government. Notable for melodrama, spectacular swordplay, and high-flying martial arts.

Although some wuxia stories are set in modern times, or even the future, most take place in the "Martial Arts World" of Jiānghú (江湖 — literally "rivers and lakes") a fantasy counterpart culture of imperial china. The Jianghu is a "shared universe", populated by martial-artists and monks, wandering knights and beautiful princesses, thieves and beggars, priests and healers, merchants and craftsmen. The best wuxia writers draw a vivid picture of the intricate relationships of honour, loyalty, love and hate between individuals and between communities in this milieu. It is implicit that law and government are unjust, ineffective and/or corrupt, requiring the xia to settle differences by force moderated only by their chivalrous code, and often forcing them to live as outlaws despite their noble characters. In modern Chinese, perhaps as a result of these connotations of a separate world with its own rules, the term jianghu has taken on other meanings, including the underworld or criminal gangs.

A more romantic term known as Wulin (武林 — literally "Warrior's Forests") is used when one wants to talk specifically about the world of martial artists and warriors specifically, divorced from the ugly connotations of criminality that jianghu has come to embody. Wulin is basically a majestic way of saying "The World of Warriors."

Modern works often incorporate outside themes and ideas, allowing the genre to develop, and in turn wǔxiá themes and visual styles have strongly influenced Western media, especially in cinema.

Compare high fantasy, heroic fantasy, and swashbuckler. For the 2011 movie titled Wu Xia, see Swordsmen.

                                                                                      