Something — a character design, a building, whatever — used to be someone's idea of futuristic. Nowadays, though, it ironically has a quaint sort of datedness to it more reminiscent of the era the work came from (or imitates, in case the zeerust is deliberate). Also sometimes called "Retro-Futuristic."

Sometimes the dated feeling is due to the blatant extrapolation of trends ascendant when the work was written into the far future. Sometimes the datedness is a bit more subtle. It's possible that the prediction turned out to be technologically or aesthetically correct (or at least on the right track), but the prediction still fails because of the would-be prophet's implicit assumption that social values will be the same in the future as in his or her own time (as demonstrated in the page image).

The datedness behind zeerusty designs lies in the attempt of the past designers to get an advantage over the technology of their time, only to find out that more mundane designs are actually far more efficient if advanced engineering and craftsmanship are used on them. not that this is always a bad thing: often the dated vision of the future is a lot more imaginative than anything being attempted today, with more modern, "realistic" depictions striking viewers as bland and boring precisely because of the authenticity.

Gets its name and definition from The Meaning of Liff by douglas adams and John Lloyd, a book of neologisms concocted by the two. Not to be confused with the South African town of the same name (Adams and Lloyd mostly used actual place names for their words).

Tropes commonly associated with Zeerust:                Sometimes Zeerust is present in retraux form.

May lead to zeerust canon over time. Compare the aesthetics of technology, crystal spires and togas, i want my jet pack, hollywood history, punk punk, steam never dies, schizo tech, science marches on, twenty minutes into the future, retro universe, our graphics will suck in the future. When the creators actually predict what the future holds correctly, then it's life imitates art.

