The 1981 Canadian-animated film anthology of stories from the magazine of the same name. Laden with sex, violence, profanity, decent animation, and a rippin' soundtrack.The framing story for each short concerns the Loc-Nar, "the sum of all evil," a sentient, floating green orb that kills people by painfully melting them into goo or turning them into monsters (and a plot device that figures into each short), showing a young girl its influence across space and time (after killing her astronaut father, who had just brought it back to Earth, de-orbiting in a classic corvette convertible).      At the climax, Taarna's defeat of the Loc-Nar echoes, and the orb menacing the girl is destroyed. A purple bird of the same kind that Taarna flew arrives at her side, and she flies off, her hair turning white and the Taarakian crest appearing on her neck.Once noted for keep circulating the tapes because music rights kept it from being released on home video. Bootleg tapes of it would routinely turn up, some taped off airings on pay cable channels. Now legally available as well.The film is adapted from a number of stories in Heavy Metal Magazine, an American version of the French comic Métal Hurlant founded by moebius and philippe druillet. A number of other adaptations have also been made, including the film Heavy Metal 2000 (which had almost nothing to do with the first film) and the third-person shooter  (which was based upon Heavy Metal 2000). Somewhat strangely, the film Heavy Metal 2000 is also sometimes seen under the title Heavy Metal: F.A.K.K.2.Plans for a new version of the film began to take shape in 2008, with lots of big names floated around to direct segments. However, the project fell into development hell, since nobody was interested in investing in it. However, in August 2011, robert rodriguez acquired the rights for a Heavy Metal movie and started the project over from scratch at his newly created company, Quick Draw Studios.                                                                                                                            