Item #: SCP-4445Object Class: thaumiel Security of these data has been compromised, rendering further secrecy counter-productive. In accordance with Information Security Protocol 008-C-1 ("Class C breach") and the decision of the 05 council , our current orders are to allow all but the most sensitive data to remain freely available, on the premise that these data are ██████████ of ██████████ released from the imageboard "4chan" and uploaded to a community-edited website (i.e. a "wiki"): here.Description: SCP-4445 is the incomplete archives of the scp foundation, a secret, global organization which exists to study, catalogue, and contain SCP Objects: artifacts and "items which jeopardize normalcy". These range from humans with strange powers, to creatures of extraterrestrial or extradimensional origin, to objects causing unexplainable phenomena, to [DATA EXPUNGED]. All of them represent clear threats to human normalcy, human society, human sanity, human lives, or quite simply the universe at large.Of course, the nature of SCP Objects means that those who contain and study them must possess certain qualities: keen intelligence, a clinical outlook, and a willingness to do what needs to be done.Addendum 4445-1:(Council member O5-██ On Foundation Ethics)In layman's terms, the SCP Foundation is a wiki that serves as a collection of reports on fictional artifacts/humanoids, based around the idea of an international agency that contains items that threaten the normality of the world. These items are referred to as SCPs, with each one given containment procedures, a description, and history of experiments on them. Originated as "creepy pasta" on 4chan's /x/ (paranormal) board, and then moved to its own site."SCP" stands for "Special Containment Procedures" (with the backronym motto of "Secure, Contain, Protect") - which sums up both the goals and methods of the foundation's supposed actions. Supplementary information includes short stories, profiles of "researchers" (authors), and an associated IRC chat room. Roleplay is strongly discouraged on the main site, to the extent of being a banable offense, but does exist; the most notorious being a "fan made" gaia online guild that was disliked for having much lower standards. And to prevent any future fandom flame wars, the SCP Foundation website predated the TV series Warehouse 13, but not Raiders of the Lost Ark.An independently developed survival horror game called SCP - Containment Breach revolves around a Class-D trying to escape a site that is undergoing a containment breach. It can be found here.Now in Russian, French, Korean, Chinese, Thai, Japanese, Spanish and Polish!Has a sister site, the wanderer's library, that focuses on the Serpent's Hand GOI and their headquarters.Note: Due to the ever changing nature of the SCP Foundation site, some of the entries may no longer be entirely accurate.    