Shadow of the Colossus is a PlayStation 2 action-adventure game and a standalone prequel to ICO. The game does away with numerous conventional videogame formulas to create an aesthetically breathtaking experience centered on massive fights and world exploration. Its storyline is vast, but told with very little exposition, which allows players to form their own story based on their individual experiences. Numerous critics have hailed Colossus as a wonderful combination of minimalist storytelling and lush graphics; it has since become one of gaming's most celebrated examples of doing it for the art.A young man named Wander enters a forbidden land on horseback, carrying the corpse of a girl, Mono, with him. Wander travels to the Shrine of Worship in search of Dormin, a mysterious god-like being said to have the power to bring people back from the dead. Upon his arrival at the Shrine, Wander hears the disembodied voice of Dormin, who confirms that he can revive Mono — but warns Wander that he will pay a terrible price in return. Dormin then instructs Wander to seek out and kill sixteen Colossi spread throughout the forbidden land; once all sixteen of the giants have fallen, Mono will be resurrected.As Wander navigates the vast expanse of empty land on his horse agro, he has only one tool to help him find the Colossi: a magic sword that he can use to reflect light and create a beam that points in the direction of the next battle. This light beam becomes less and less helpful as the game progresses, as reaching the later Colossi involves lots of long detours through shadowy mountain paths and dark valleys. Aside from his sword, his bow, and his own strength, Wander has nothing else to fall back on — there's no armor to collect, no items to use, and no secret power-ups hidden away somewhere. (Well, not until new game+, anyway.)When Wander engages in battle with a Colossus, he must defeat them by climbing their bodies to find their weak points. The Colossi do everything possible to make reaching the weak points difficult, so battles can take much longer than the typical boss fights in other video games. Once Wander kills a Colossus, he is transported back to the Shrine of Worship, and the process repeats itself — each time with some very, very subtle changes in wander's looks.of course, wander can also just spend hours and hours exploring everything.Colossus is a unique game in several ways: While Wander can kill the local friendly wildlife for a small permanent stamina bonus, only the sixteen Colossi serve as his enemies. The game provides no towns or dungeons to explore or other characters to interact with.  Wander has only a bow-and-arrow set and the magic sword in his inventory. No other items exist in an initial playthrough, and he cannot upgrade his current ones (except for replay value in a Colossus marks the second entry in the Team Ico Series, a set of thematically-connected games developed by Team Ico. ICO and Colossus ended up bundled together for an updated re-release on the PlayStation 3 in October 2011. The next game in the series, The Last Guardian, seems to have landed in development hell.A movie based on the game also sits in Development Hell. On one hand, it has plenty of potential for scenery porn and a compelling plot; on the other hand, how do you adapt what amounts to a puzzle game writ large? While justin marks had the initial credit for the film's screenplay, the studio ended up replacing him with Josh Trank, the director of Chronicle.Although unnamed in the actual game, several sites claimed that word of god released a name list for the individual Colossi. Please see the characters page for more details.                                                                                             