Shadowrun is a tabletop game from fasa that straddles the cyber punk and dungeon punk genres.It's set twenty minutes into the future (first edition in 2050, second edition in 2053, third in 2060, fourth in 2070, and fifth in 2075), with one major difference: In 2011, on the "zero date" at the end of the Mayan calendar, magic (which has its own, millennia long tides) returned to the world. Humans mutated into various other races (elves, dwarves, orks, and trolls), dragons awoke from eons-long slumber, and some people gained the ability to cast spells. The Native Americans were the first ones to use magic on a greater scale and they used their newfound power to re-take most of the western North American continent; however, the real movers and shakers are the megacorporations, who have achieved extranational status and are now exempt from most laws. In this world, the players are Shadowrunners, freelance operatives who take jobs that corporations, governments, and other entities can't (or won't) handle themselves.Probably the most popular cyberpunk role playing game, which pisses off purists to no end (due to the system's blend of cyberpunk with fantasy species and tropes). video game adaptations of the setting were made for both the sega genesis and super nintendo in the 90's. The two were very different from each other, and the Genesis version was considered a classic for its console (the reason greg muzyka left medical school to work for bioware), while the less-popular SNES version is thought of as one of the console's hidden gems. There was also a Japan-only game for the sega cd. Another adaptation, a team-based fps for the Xbox 360 and PC, however, has been much less well-received. The primary reason you will find it referenced is the rare use of cross-platform multiplayer between the 360 and PC versions. (This game is also the reason it is rare, as gameplay was massively unbalanced in the favor of PC players due to superior controls.) A new game started getting funding via kickstarter and exceeded its $400,000 goal in just 28 hours, making $1,889,416 total. Called Shadowrun Returns, it was produced by FASA founder and Shadowrun co-creator Jordan Weisman and released on July 25th, 2013.It has a strictly fantasy offshoot, Earthdawn. For a while, it has been stated that Earthdawn is actually a prequel to Shadowrun placed in the Fourth Age (Shadowrun being Sixth), but this connection is no longer used officially, as the two games are now managed by different publishers. There's also a space opera offshoot in the works, Equinox, but it currently looks like vapor ware.has a character sheet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   