A sequel to the hit Sonic Adventure and one of the sega dreamcast's final releases, and a title to mark the 10th anniversary of the series. It was also the last original Sonic game to be made before sega quit making consoles.Mad scientist dr. eggman has a new plan to take over the world: reviving his grandfather's legacy, the abandoned space station "ARK". By using the Chaos Emeralds to power the ARK's most dangerous weapon, the eclipse cannon, Eggman plans to strongarm the world into accepting his new world order. Helping him in this new scheme are two accomplices: Rouge the Bat, a femme fatale jewel thief with shady motives; and Shadow the Hedgehog, a super-powered black hedgehog touted as "The Ultimate Lifeform".Enter chronic hero Sonic the Hedgehog, who is mistaken for Shadow and falsely arrested by the law enforcement agency "G.U.N.". After breaking out of custody, Sonic is on a mission to clear his name, beat his new-found ebony rival and stop Dr. Eggman. Joining him are Miles "Tails" Prower, a kid genius and Sonic's best friend; and Knuckles the Echidna, who is searching for the scattered pieces of the Master Emerald after it gets shattered... again.Got that? The plot is much darker than the already-pretty dark Sonic Adventure, as it contains vague allusions to a corrupt military and genocidal insanity, while still retaining the cheese the series is known for. For example, Sonic being mistaken for a black hedgehog with red stripes despite having saved the world repeatedly.This is the first game in the series — bar racing and party games — where you get to play as the villains, and by extension, the first where you get to play as Dr. Eggman. This game also introduced Shadow the Hedgehog and Rouge the Bat, both of whom would become series mainstays.Like its predecessor, this game was also a big-hit critically and commercially, being hailed as a true swan song for the dying dreamcast. It also, however, suffered some of the same polygon ceiling-related criticism of camera screw and controls that its predecessor had. It also ditched the hubworlds in favor of a traditional level-by-level form of progression.The game was re-released for the gamecube several months after the Dreamcast version as Sonic Adventure 2: Battle (before its predecessor's remake), which added more Chao stuff and gave 2-Player Mode a complete overhaul (which is probably where the "Battle" subtitle comes in).   There is also one driving stage each for Tails and Rouge. Beating one of them unlocks the single-player kart racing mini-game, while beating the other unlocks the two-player option.Following the success of its prequel, an hd re-release of the game was released for xbox 360 and playstation 3 respectively through xbox live arcade and playstation network on October 2nd, 2012 for $10; The additional two-player modes of Sonic Adventure 2: Battle are downloadable content for $3. The game has also been released on PC via steam on November 19th, 2012, marking its official PC debut.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              