SUPER SMAAAAAAAAAAAAAAASH BROTHEEEERRRRS!Super Smash Bros., known in Japan as Dairantō Smash Brothers (literally Great Melee Smash Brothers), is nintendo's and masahiro sakurai's very own massive multiplayer crossover platform fighter with a twist. Remember all those times when, as a kid, you put all your Transformers, G.I. Joe, Masters of the Universe and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles toys together and made them fight (and you know you did)? Super Smash Bros. takes that idea and runs with it.Characters from Nintendo's large stable of games, from mario and pikachu to link and samus aran, face off in a four-player fight to the finish.Unlike other games, however, the Smash Bros. series doesn't leave it at that. several stages have platforms, bringing the carnage to multiple levels, while others have native dangers, such as rising acid and random airstrikes. In addition, various weapons will appear randomly on the field, from barrels and hammers from Donkey Kong, to beam swords, starmans, the old SNES Super Scope, and even Poké Balls, which of course, release pokémon to help you out. Instead of simply trying to inflict damage, players are attempting to knock their opponents off the stage (hence the "Smash" in the title), either by forcing them off the sides or just smacking them higher and higher until they eventually go sailing off as a twinkle in the sky, or, more humorously, bouncing off the camera.The first game, Super Smash Bros. (1999), released for the nintendo 64, is regarded as one of the better games available for the system. The sequel, Super Smash Bros. Melee (2001) for the gamecube featured even more characters, such as the oft-rescued princesses zelda and Peach opposite their oft-kidnappers bowser and ganondorf, a side-scrolling Adventure Mode, and collectible trophies. Two hidden characters in the game, marth and roy from the Fire Emblem series that until then was only released in japan, led to that series getting a much larger worldwide audience and release, becoming another of Nintendo's worldwide flagship series (it had always been one of their flagship series in Japan). Melee eventually became the gamecube's bestselling game, selling 7.09 million copies. Several fans consider Melee the magnum opus of the series, thanks to its speed, depth of gameplay, and high skill ceiling; its competitive scene is alive and well and its metagame is still evolving, even close to fifteen years after its release.The third game in the series, Super Smash Bros. Brawl (2008) for the wii, introduces final smashes, brings back the long-absent Pit from Kid Icarus, and even features third-party characters from outside Nintendo's stable; in this case, sonic the hedgehog and  Solid Snake, the former fulfilling an over fifteen year-old fanboy dream, and the latter because of a request by hideo kojima himself. The game is notable for its successor to Melee's single-player Adventure Mode, called the Subspace Emissary. The cinematic-style story tells of a world in which the characters (as implied in Melee) are trophies that come to life and fight each other, until the Subspace Army appears and tries to take the entire world for themselves by transporting it, piece by piece, into Subspace. The characters team up with each other and battle through worlds inspired by Nintendo games while trying to stop the Subspace Army.Brawl also happens to be the most extensively modded console game by far that can be played on its original console. Specifically, it serves as the basis of the most extensive console game mod of all time, Project M (see the trivia tab for others).A fourth game, titled simply , has been released in 2014. It is dual-platform on the nintendo 3ds and the wii u, and the two games are able to interact with each other. namco bandai assisted in the development process, lending some of their top staff like the Tekken developers and the director of the Tales Series. Creator Sakurai had pondered the direction he wanted the fourth installment to go in, stating that throwing in gimmicks would hurt more than it would help, and as such, the fourth game does not have a story mode as Brawl did. During development, one of the reasons Sakurai stopped tweeting as often was that he was tired of posting a game he was playing and fans immediately assuming its characters would be in the new games. The game does include several third-party characters, bringing Sonic the Hedgehog back, and also introducing mega man and pac-man to the series. There are also trophies for certain third-party characters that have prominently appeared on Nintendo consoles, such as rayman. The games are confirmed to have Amiibo functionality.This game pretty much kicked off the mascot fighter sub-genre in one go. It also codified/inspired the platform fighter sub-genre.Each game has an official website, all of which can be visited at the following links:     The Wii U and 3DS games also have a Miiverse community accessible from just about anything with an internet connection and a screen. Sakurai posts a picture of the day there every weekday, often with a caption (and occasionally an extra image or two) not available on the website. These pictures along with the caption are now also posted to the game's See also smash wiki and smashpedia, which have extensive info on the series and its meta game here and here, respectively. You can discuss the series here.And as we face each other in battle, locked in combat... We shine ever brighter.