

Films based on the franchise created by Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird. Four have been released so far, the fourth of which was an all-cgi cartoon but still a loose sequel to the previous three. A fifth, a continuity reboot, was released in August 2014.The Shredder is building an army. With his Foot Clan, a group of misguided teenagers trained in the art of ninjitsu, he is responsible for a crime wave the likes of which New York City has never seen. The worst thing is that they're ninjas. How do you catch someone so quick? So silent?Enter four reptilian hominids: Leonardo, Donatello, Michelangelo, and Raphael, given a humanoid shape through a dip in a broken canister full of mutagen. Trained by a similarly mutated rat named Splinter in the art of ninjitsu as well, along with moral support in investigative reporter April O'Neil and extra muscle in street vigilante Casey Jones, these Ninja Turtles must save the Big Apple from the clutches of the Foot.Financially the most successful of the movies made thus far, the first was mostly an adaptation of eastman and laird's original comic, although it did take some elements from the popular '80s cartoon, such as the turtles' love of pizza and their differently colored headbands, and April's job as an investigative reporter. The costumes provided for the eponymous heroes, as well as puppetry for Splinter and the turtles as young mutants, were provided by jim henson.The Foot Clan is back, and back at the helm is Shredder, thought dead by practically everyone. Scarred from his dive into a trash compactor, he is out for revenge. Their numbers may be diminished, but they have something to even the odds. Taking a sample of the waste that birthed the Ninja Turtles from the TGRI laboratory, the Foot has two deadly enforcers in the form of Tokka and Rahzar, a mutated snapping turtle and wolf.Can the Turtles finally stop the Foot once and for all, or will Tokka and Rahzar's strength be too much?While it was still a money maker, it garnered some criticism from fans of the first film for toning down the violence and adult themes, and although Jim Henson's Creature Shop still worked on the movie, the costumes and animatronics were considered a little inferior, supposedly toning down the gritty detail to avoid scaring children (they still looked just fine, though). Generally considered more like the goofy cartoon than like the edgy comic, the best example of this being Shredder, who went from being a badass to still a bit of a badass but a little more bumbling. Despite these criticisms, it is still considered a guilty pleasure.This movie was also notable for the one-time character Keno—played by Ernie Reyes, Jr.—a martial artist/pizza delivery boy who provided some assistance for the turtles after they saved his hide from a group of muggers. He disappeared from the rest of the movies. Tokka and Rahzar were original characters made for the movie as well, but this would not be the last we would see of them. The mutant duo would appear later in an episode of the original cartoon, the video games Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Turtles in Time and The Manhattan Project, as well as the intercontinuity crossover movie Turtles Forever.Infamous for the appearance of rapper vanilla ice, who (in the context of the movie; it was presumably written ahead of time) came up with a rap almost instantaneously when the fight between the turtles and Tokka and Rahzar wound up at his gig at a club.Also the only Ninja Turtles movie made thus far to not feature Casey Jones. At all. Up until the 2014 reboot.                                                                                                                                     