not a political movement. london's underground railway system is the oldest in the world — the first section opened in 1863 — and one of the best known. It's also known as The Tube due to the tubular shape of deep level stations and tunnels (the name of a number of TV and radio programmes, only one of which is Underground related). Due to the combination of metal, urine and anxious sweat, it has a smell all its own.

Entire books have been written on the system, so we'll be brief here. The London Underground runs on a four-rail 630V direct current. It has 275 stations at present. Not all of the Underground is actually "underground"; much of it is (like many other subway systems) above the surface, over half in this case, with some "underground" stations in the open air (in fact some Underground trains share stations with national rail services). The Docklands Light Railway is a separate system — almost entirely above the surface, run by a different company and has a different power system — but is shown on the tube map and counted as a tube line for ticketing purposes. Many people seem to think it is just another tube line.

In November 2007, Transport for London (the company that runs the network, nearly all of the buses and the tram system in Croydon) acquired some National Rail lines, which became "London Overground" (one of these, the Gospel Oak to Barking line, is actually non-electrified and much of the rest is dual voltage). TfL also runs a tram system in the Croydon area, as well as a riverboat service.

The city's considerable age has led to several stations having wonderfully evocative names, including East India, Seven Sisters, Elephant & Castle, Tooting Bec, White City and the unintentionally hilarious Cockfosters. Try not to coo too much, though, because it will make your position as a tourist even more obvious. In fact, the best way to act on the Tube is to nonchalantly read a book (or the free papers that end up littering the cars), or else stare straight ahead with dead eyes. This tendency by London Tubegoers is often referenced in the rest of the country, with northerners claiming that they can (and do) easily find each other on a given Tube train due to being the only people who act as if there are other human beings present.

The stations are all very different, varying from modern-day gleaming loveliness (most notably the new Jubilee line stations) to atmospheric Victorian gloom (Baker Street), with variations frequently occurring in the same station, especially at interchanges. A considerable number of the older stations are of listed building status (subject to preservation orders) and the architecture has been the subject of books. The deepest station is Hampstead, which has platforms 220 feet beneath the ground, largely due to a hill directly above it. It's best to take the lift when using these stations, as the only other option is a really long spiral staircase.

Most deep-level stations have escalators (the one at Angel is the longest in Western Europe), but obviously at stations five metres below ground level they're just not worth it. The tendency of the early tube operators to switch from lifts (elevators) to escalators when they became available means a large part of the network is inaccessible to wheelchair users — although sometimes there are stations which would be completely accessible if it weren't for a few steps between the bottom lift level and the platforms. To avoid pointed stares and quiet mutterings do not stand on or put any luggage on the left hand side of the escaltor (this side is for people walking up the escaltor in a hurry) or stand still at the top/bottom of the escalator. People using the tube are often in a hurry and these faux pas are notorious as tourist behaviour.

During the Second World War, many people sheltered in the underground stations as protection from air raids (the Moscow Metro was actually designed with this in mind). It was discouraged at first because the government thought it would bring about a new kind of homelessness (they were also probably kicking themselves for not thinking of it first), but they eventually gave in. Most tended to prefer them to their Andersons or the communal shelters since they were a bit cosier, arguably safer, more familiar and arguably less scary. When a fatal crush occurred at Bethnal Green in 1943 after a false alarm, it was hushed up by the government precisely because people might stop sheltering there.

The lines have their own names and associated colours. They are always referred to by their names though — say "Green line" instead of "District Line" and people will just be confused. To avoid inconveniencing the working population of London in general, repairs or other work on the lines are typically done on the weekends. The age of the Underground combined with an attempt to get through the upgrading project as fast as possible means that nowadays there are often three or four lines not running as normal at the weekends. It's advisable to check on the TfL website before travelling.

There are two different sizes of trains (although the gauge is the same), depending on how the original line was constructed. with larger trains being used for the subsurface lines, which use cut-and-cover construction in tunnels, and tube-shaped trains for the deep-level lines bored far underground. And each line has different trains to suit the subtleties of each set of tracks (although the sub-surface lines are due to have a standardised set soon).

On most of the network, every train stops at every station, though in two places lines operate alongside one another to provide a fast/local service — the District line serves some stations not served by Piccadilly line trains, while the Jubilee line serves some stations not served by Metropolitan line trains. The Met also has "fast" trains that skip more stations further along the line.

The gauge is the same as main line trains, and there are some sections of track where the underground shares tracks with other trains. The Crossrail network, currently being built beneath central London (linking two existing National Rail lines), is not part of the Underground, although inevitably it will share stations with it.

The network is divided into nine fare zones, and two ancillary sections for Watford Junction and Essex/Kent (formerly six with four ancillary sections, one for Hertfordshire and three for Buckinghamshire), dubbed the Travelcard Zones, because of the ticket type that allows the unlimited use of the whole network and most of the National Rail network in the area for its validity period (a day to a year), except the river boats where you just get a discount. The integrated ticket was introduced by the GLC in 1981 as part of a general price cut. The cut was ruled illegal, but the ticket stayed. Zone 1 is Central London and you will see estate agents (realtors) use "Zone 1" to advertise properties. In recent years the prepaid, scannable "Oyster card" has become very popular among regular Tube users, allowing you to travel without buying a ticket and giving a good discount into the bargain.

The most famous quote associated with the system is the above-mentioned "Mind the gap", used on stations with curved platforms (albeit with a lot of stations using boring, but practical variations on the phrase). Based on the experiences of our British Tropers, this is probably advice worth listening to.It is far from uncommon to see rats and mice happily scampering around on the lines and even sometimes on the platform. They survive on the multitude of food dropped by people passing through and anything else they can find. There are also rumors of a colony of mosquitoes that got in when the lines were being dug, got trapped, and have now evolved so far as to be unbreedable with any other kind of mosquito — kind of London's version of alligators in the sewers.

The Underground logo or Roundel is iconic and much-imitated, but it is a trademark and TfL claims to prosecute all unauthorised users.

The Underground features in fiction quite a bit. Transport for London will let you film down there if you ask permission first. They even have a webpage dedicated to filming there. They'd happily let you do simple scenes down there, a murder or two at most, but they'd draw the line at a mass shoot-out or a terrorist attack (for obvious reasons). The places they'll often let you use are Aldwych (a closed station on a closed branch, usually used for historical settings), the closed Jubilee Line platforms at Charing Cross (usually used for contemporary tube scenes) and the closed Down Street station.

Many filmmakers mock up Tube stations as a result, with varying degrees of accuracy.

     One Under: The term used when someone goes under a train (fatally or not), be it as a result of attempted or actual suicide, murder or accident. Has turned up in fiction at least twice (as in 