

The Ur Example is the oldest known example of a given trope. "Ur-" is just a German prefix meaning "proto-, primitive, or original."

Typically, an Ur Example doubles as the trope maker — but not always, and far less often with ancient tropes, which often evolved over a long period of time rather than suddenly bursting forth from someone's head, fully formed. When they're distinct, a trope maker differs from an Ur Example in that the latter becomes an example of that trope only in retrospect.

For instance, one of the pivotal trope makers of the detective story is edgar allan poe's collection of Dupin stories; before Dupin, there is no story genre of fictional detectives going about the business of solving crimes. Nevertheless, while you may or may not know Poe's Dupin stories, you've probably encountered a certain Danish Prince named hamlet, who not only sets about to ensnare his uncle king claudius, but even incorporates into his plans a play-within-a-play he dubs "the mousetrap." And half a millennium earlier still, "The Tale of the Three Apples" is a proto-detective story from the book of one thousand and one nights — which makes "The Tale of the Three Apples" the Ur Example of the detective story, or at least a possible candidate. However, oedipus rex, first performed in 429 BCE, depicts Oedipus investigating the cause of the plague that has struck his realm.

Wherever a trope has evolved gradually, determining the Ur Example can be a complicated and contentious business. In many cases a trope has more than one Ur Example, because determining the "earliest use of the trope" depends on subjective choices as to which aspects of the trope are its defining qualities.

Ur Examples are unfortunately highly susceptible to the seinfeld is unfunny trope - not only because they dreamed up conventions that have been around practically forever but because, since at the time they were so new, the creators didn't really appreciate what they were making and thus didn't conform to the standards of an aesthetic or gimmick that hadn't even existed yet. See unbuilt trope and beam me up, scotty! for more on this.

