square soft's Vagrant Story is a genre-defying, stat-based playstation one RPG by videogame auteur yasumi matsuno. It is available as a downloadable title on the Playstation Network.Vagrant Story is the tale of Ashley Riot, a knight who works for the kingdom of Valendia during the dark ages of ivalice. But Ashley is no ordinary agent: he is one of the Parliament's elite Riskbreakers, a one-man army trained for the most dangerous black-ops and infiltration missions.When a seemingly immortal cult leader named Syndey Losstarot kidnaps the son of the powerful Duke Bardorba, Ashley is sent to infiltrate the lost city of leá monde, assassinate Syndey and recover the boy. However, he is not alone: the Priesthood of St. Iocus, a political rival to the Parliament, have also taken a strong interest in the evil powers lurking within Leá Monde, and have dispatched their own private army to capture Sydney. Leading these "Knights of the Cross" is Romeo Guildenstern, a pious but sinister paladin.In the style of classic dungeon crawlers, the player takes Ashley through Leá Monde's catacombs and ancient temples, killing vast quantities of equally-ancient monsters along the way. The plot unfolds rapidly as new parties enter the fray: there's Jan Rosencrantz, an ex-Riskbreaker who is playing all sides to seize the secrets of the city for himself; Callo Merlose, a Parliament agent who is captured by Sydney and (through the power of clairvoyance) becomes Ashley's eyes and ears on his mark; General Grissom, a Knight of the Cross seeking revenge for the death of his brother (at Ashley's hands); and John Hardin, Sydney's gentle accomplice, who slowly realizes that he's being locked out of the loop.A cat-and-mouse game ensues: as Ashley tails his mark through the catacombs, Sydney probes ashley's lost memories and teases him with the inconsistencies he finds. Have ashley's memories been tampered with in order to turn him into the perfect soldier? What is Syndey's final goal, and who will ultimately claim the forbidden power of Leá Monde?The game is easily one of the most complicated Squaresoft RPGs: a combination of 80's dungeon crawling with French graphic novel aesthetics, shakespearean dialogue, elaborate item crafting, rhythm game combat and the structure of a Greek drama, with the characters dressed in... well, fairly homoerotic bondage gear. It's a gorgeous but polarizing game, due to being nintendo hard, and features very mature themes compared to other Final Fantasy installments. And its English version has what's probably the most celebrated localization in video game history.The game's difficulty lies in its stat-based and menu-based combat. Vagrant Story's battle system is perhaps closer to Nethack than it is to most games in the Final Fantasy series. Instead of gaining traditional experience points, Ashley — also a skilled blacksmith — crafts a collection of weapons and a full set of armor, planning around elements, weapon types, weapon range, creature types and Ashley's own reaction abilities. In practice, this means the player may end up switching and re-configuring their equipment for every enemy they encounter. Difficult? Horribly so. Rewarding? Yes. It's nintendo hard, with a very steep learning curve, but of the "difficult to learn, easy to master" variety.The story is connected to the ivalice alliance, with numerous references the previous Ivalice game Final Fantasy Tactics, and references back to Vagrant Story in later installments. It could be considered a standalone non-linear sequel to Final Fantasy Tactics and Final Fantasy XII, and as such, part of the god-punchingly popular Final Fantasy series. As for its canonicity, though, Matsuno has stated that these references are just meant to be fanservice, and that the game should be treated as a standalone story rather than as part of the Ivalice world.Also, a warning for first time players. There are four opening movies that are very easily skipped by accident. Without seeing these sequences, the game makes very little sense. The scenes are: (1) the introduction cutscene, seen by leaving the menu running for a minute or so, (2) an optional (spoiler-filled) trailer, seen by leaving the menu running a second time after viewing the first introduction, (3) the actual opening sequence, which after hitting "New Game". It is too easily skipped by accidentally pressing "start", (4) the vital second part of the opening sequence, which probably So, don't press start until after you see the first save point. Oh, also. Like many Japanese Playstation games, Circle is "confirm" and X is "cancel".See also Crimson Shroud, a spiritual successor that shares some of the same terminology and lore.                                                                                                                                 