World War II, or the Second World War (often abbreviated as WWII or WW2), was a global war fought from 1939 to 1945. It involved the vast majority of the world's nations and nation-states — including all the great powers — which eventually formed two loose, opposing military alliances: the Allies or Allied powers (China, France, the UK, the USA, the USSR among others) against the Axis powers (chiefly nazi germany, fascist italy and imperial japan).

World War II is most commonly described as having been fought in two main theaters of war. The European Theater was the conflict between the Allied Powers against Germany, Italy and their European allies. This conflict was fought not only in Europe, but in the Atlantic Ocean and North Africa. This conflict began with the invasion of Poland in September of 1939 and ended in May 1945 with the fall of Berlin and Prague. The Pacific Theater was the conflict fought between the Allies and Imperial Japan in the Pacific Ocean and Asia, which also included some action in the Indian Ocean. This conflict was born out of the second sino-japanese war which started when the Japanese Empire invaded China in July 1937. This war became part of the 'world war' proper when Japan attacked American and British territories in December 1941.

It was the most intensive and extensive war in history, with more than 100 million people serving in military units. In a state of "total war", the major participants eventually placed their entire financial, industrial, and scientific capabilities at the service of the war effort, thereby erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources. Marked by significant events involving (organized) massacres and genocides, including the holocaust, large-scale aerial bombardment of civilian populations and the only use of nuclear weapons in warfare, it resulted in some 50 to 70 million dead (some higher estimates go to a nice round 100 million by counting the unborn... or just by simple, and usually not deliberate, miscounting) - making this war the deadliest and costliest conflict in human history.

                   Many,     