

Sometimes, age can be the deciding factor on whether a scenario is "pathetic but funny", "kind of sad", "upsetting", or "gut wrenching."

Broadly speaking, viewers have more sympathy for young characters. We expect children to have an emotional response to everything, and so we expect them to experience the emotion more acutely. "staying true to yourself" is more important to young characters than "maintain your dignity at all times", so it's acceptable — even appropriate — for children to burst out into tears in situations where adults would get a funny look for doing the same.

The audience may feel mildly betrayed when a young character suffers a tremendous tragedy. Children are supposed to have an idealistic outlook on life; their parents should be there to protect them, they don't have to worry about money or jobs, and their daily trials and tribulations should be minor. Of course, it doesn't feel like "no big deal" when you are a child, and many children could tell you that this blissful interpretation of childhood does not match up with their reality. In general, though, kids aren't expected to have too many worries. So when kids get whacked over the head with the reality stick, in the form of divorce, bereavement, illness, poverty, etc., it seems like a betrayal of the child's inherent trust in the world. Adults, on the other hand, are supposed to know that it's a crapsack world out there and not be too surprised when life goes to hell in a hand-basket (and people wonder why growing up sucks).

An adult that suffers the same problems isn't "meant" to be as badly affected, especially if those problems relate back to their parents and siblings. If a child's parents divorce, it's a tragedy, and all but the most jerkass characters will be sympathetic and allow them to vent their feelings. If a twenty-five-year old receives news that his parents are divorcing and makes his feelings on the matter known, his various friends and family will tell him to "grow up" and probably throw in "your parents don't have to answer to you any more; they've got their own lives to live." Because the effects are less immediate, since the adult probably doesn't live with their parents (and those who do are often acceptable targets), they lose their "right" to be upset.

In extreme cases, this can be the difference between comedy and tragedy. A grown up unfavourite is usually a pathetic loser who blames all his problems on his childhood; a young unfavourite is a tragic woobie.

However, in other cases, a situation will be seen as devastating to an adult when they're shrugged off as a minor issue for children/teens. A thirteen year old who's heartbroken after breaking up with her first boyfriend will get a talk with her mum in which she's told that it's part of growing up, and she'll get over it — she's too young for boys anyway. A twenty-something woman who breaks up with her love interest will have her friends rallying around to support her (and often a parent who'd just love to introduce her to a more "appropriate" partner).

The clincher is often material security. Children (usually) live with their parents and siblings, so divorce, parental favoritism, moving house, and the death of a parent have a major impact on their lives — these issues affect their living conditions, and, moreover, they don't really get a say in what happens to them. If Dad decides they're moving to a different country so that he can chase a promotion, the kids' interests are usually glossed over.

Conversely, issues affecting employment, dignity, independence, and romance hit adult characters harder than kids. A teenager loses his burger fool McJob and it's no big issue — he's still got his parents to support him. A man with kids loses his job though... that's a problem, since he's the one that's doing the supporting, especially if he was a burger fool too, as it means money was probably already tight. Children are also portrayed as being able to "bounce back" from attacks on their self-esteem, such as bullying or social embarrassment, while these can have a long-reaching effect on adults. Psychoanalysis might rather disagree on that point, of course.

The most glaring difference turns up in instances involving grief. An adult who loses a parent gets less time to grieve than a child who loses a parent. The adult will be given one episode to cope with their loss, after which the parent is almost forgotten by the plot; the child will never really get over it, and the deceased parent will be frequently mentioned. An adult who loses a child, though, will probably be defined by that loss; outliving your own offspring seems unnatural and grossly unfair.

Often truth in television. Keep in mind, also, that this trope is extremely culturally subjective, and affected by values dissonance.

See also harmful to minors, troubling unchildlike behaviour.

