These male characters are badass nancy boys. They're often campy, vain and in many cases pretty, but they're also incredibly effective at what they do, and quite powerful. They may have combat skills, seduction ability that rivals James Bond's, or simply be chessmasters skilled in manipulating others. They can be gay or straight, good or evil, played for laughs or played seriously, but they're all dominant personalities who tend to get their way. They also tend to be romantically successful, attracting admirers, and often getting the girl (or boy, as the case may be).

Unlike the real men wear pink trope, these characters are not macho with one or two girly interests, they're all around girly characters, who are also tougher, cooler, and more surrounded by ladies than any normal person could ever hope to be (to some extent because they're girly). These characters are rarely regimented military types, usually filling more the loveable (or in some cases detestable) rogue type, though occasionally one is seen in the role of military leader of some sort. Decadence is also a big part of this trope, as they're usually more FABULOUS than simply "feminine".

Some ways in which girly-ness can make a character more badass:

 In some cases effeminacy is a tactic for these characters, a way to unsettle and intimidate their enemies, by the logic that "if he can still be badass and confident in his masculinity in that dress, his balls must be the size of watermelons and made of steel." They're still inherently effeminate characters, but they've realized that it throws people, and so use it to their advantage.

 It can also be seen as a sexual tactic, as in some universes acting girly seems to attract women (and in certain shows  Their pretty looks and girly behaviour are an indicator of their prowess- they go through the exact same trials as the scarred, unshaven, macho-looking tough guys, and do it without messing their hair or breaking a nail.

 On a related note some characters use their femininity to maintain an element of surprise. (E.g., "No one suspects the flamingly camp hairdresser of being a super soldier")

 Sometimes girly knowledge is also a part of the badassitude. (E.g., "Mrs. Busby did it because her shade of lipstick was on the napkin that was found with the victim, it's called passion plum, I very nearly borrowed it for the ball the other day")

Compare: sissy villain, real men wear pink, in touch with his feminine side, wholesome crossdresser, creepy crossdresser, gay bravado (straight men using homoerotic comments to reinforce their heterosexuality), camp straight, camp gay, even the guys want him, the fighting narcissist, girly bruiser, kicking ass in all her finery (distaff counterpart).

Note: An agent peacock is considered Badass, even though you wouldn't expect it at first. A sissy villain emphasizes his viciousness through feminine behaviour. Both tropes can overlap, especially when agent peacock is evil.

Contrast: pink is for sissies and unmanly secretMany elves fall under this. Unrelated to the peacock girl.

