This is a character who is godlike, yet dislikes the comparison and firmly identifies themself as a mortal. They may be a godlike flying brick a la superman, a reality warper like doctor manhattan, a physical god like tom bombadil, or someone who somehow got the powers and duties of an actual god. The crux of their rationale is usually that they are still mortal, human, and terrestrial in enough ways that they don't want to make the claim. Maybe they still think in mortal terms about time and morality, and aren't a time abyss or above good and evil. Maybe they don't want the responsibility all that power entails. Then again, it may just be the thought of being actively worshipped that's squicky to them.

Where this gets interesting is when a character who fits all the criteria for a god (and may even be one in the setting's cosmology) still chooses not to think of themselves that way because it would drive them mad. With all that power samaritan syndrome could make them take responsibility for EVERY bad thing that happens. On the other end, power corrupts, and the pride in claiming godhood might make them evil. Then again, they could develop a blue and orange morality from the sheer alien experience of it and grow divorced from their mortal roots, which they adamantly oppose.

Generally, this character is someone who can be trusted not to let omnipotence go to their head, and may even actively seek to get depowered or pass on the mantle because it's too much of a hassle. Usually this character was at one point a mortal who got super empowered into the job, though an actual god may take this position out of disdain for their peers' jerkass god behavior.

A heckuva lot of mary sue characters fit this bill. See also humble hero. See also unwanted false faith, when a regular Joe becomes the target of religious adoration and is firmly opposed to it. Not quite the opposite trope of a god am i; the latter only requires a god complex and not genuine god-like powers.

Compare stop worshipping me, which is specifically about anyone who discourages being worshipped for any of a number of reasons.

Not to be confused with the anti-god.

