This person gets bored extremely easily and needs to be entertained at all times. Unpredictability isn't just preferred, it's a necessity for this guy's sanity — if too many days pass quietly, they start to lose their mind. They're the roommate who always "forgot" that it was his turn to clean up, but who dragged you along on his (mis)adventures and kept life so interesting that you ended up not minding. They're also the parent who uprooted their kids every time they felt life was getting "boring" and the spouse who signed themselves and their unknowing partner up for a mission to Jupiter — anything, anything to avoid life becoming "normal."

Your sympathy for this character may vary. On one hand, they're funny, unpredictable and keep life interesting...but on second thought, you'd probably think twice about marrying this character or having them as a parent. They often have a crippling case of no sympathy, and assume what they want is what's best for everyone. The fact that their boyfriend is keen to take over the family business in his hometown, or their kid is sick and tired of having to make new friends every four months, will simply not compute with them — life's getting same-y, so let's get out of here!

However, they may not get as far as having a steady partner, much less kids, to worry about — that means commitment, and very possibly the dreaded prospect of domesticity. Many Allergic To Routine characters would rather remain free agents, never hanging around for breakfast after a passionate night or forming lasting friendships. If they do, it will be a major plot point.

They may use dubious means to make things "interesting," or disrupt the lives of those around them just to see what happens. They will enjoy being a weirdness magnet, would never dream of declaring "i just want to be normal" and, if faced with normality, will be spotted running into the horizon screaming "i just want to be special"...except it's not the "specialness" or chosen one status they want, it's the ability to make life interesting.

calvinball is essentially allergic to routine: The Game, so if the Calvinball-like game in a work is presented as one specific character's brainchild, then you can guess that character will probably exhibit this trope (as calvin himself definitely does).

Contrast with creature of habit. Compare and contrast desperately seeking a purpose in life.

