A character is surrounded by people who constantly put him or her down, usually because of some trait that is integral to them being a hero or villain. It seems the only responses one can make to this are the extremes: "put up with it silently" or "guess you don't need me." And, in worst case, take the irrational hatred to heart and start hating oneself. All the other muggles will look down on the hero even as they're being slaughtered.

If a hero, the character will constantly show their virtue by putting up with it and saving their tormentors' lives again and again. Said tormentors will be grateful for about five seconds (that is, until the end of the episode), and then start it up again. There's only two settings for the hero. stiff upper lip, or abandoning his tormentors completely. The hero's putting up with this borders on being masochistic. Few attempts are made to truly change their situation, unless it's "going too far and abandoning people entirely," (which they'll regret considering and go right back to it again.) It's not uncommon for a disillusioned hero, however, to undergo a 10-minute retirement as a result of such poor treatment. As a result of this, crime and mayhem will usually skyrocket, the muggles and mundane authorities will be unable to cope, and a slightly humiliating backtracking will be necessary as they beg the hero to come back and clean the mess up. Of course, once the hero does come back, they had better not expect gratitude; the ungrateful bastards may immediately start picking on them again as soon as the mess is cleaned up. This is, unfortunately, sometimes truth in television.

if a villain, they'll inevitably explode and slaughter their tormentors, to the barely disguised envy of the audience, who may end up on his side. Oh, the hero will stop them eventually, but not before most of those who wronged the villain are taken out. Afterwards the villain will ask the hero why he didn't use his powers for evil given the rough treatment.

One of the usual problems facing a plucky girl. Fear of this happening is a common motivation for i just want to be normal. Compare the parental why couldn't you be different?. Often collides with fridge logic when you realize people are bullying a dragon. This is also a major problem when individuality is illegal. They can make you go what the hell, townspeople? Compare of the people and my species doth protest too much.

Bonus points if, like Rudolph, the character in question is actually a reindeer.

Related fantastic racism, never accepted in his hometown, internalized categorism and klingon scientists get no respect. Possible cause for driven to suicide. If this is played in a positive aspect, then it's enemies equals greatness.

Not to be confused with Olive the Other Reindeer. Nor with sorry, billy, but you just don't have legs.

