In order for a relationship to work, each party must put effort into the relationship, and they must appreciate the results. Sometimes, one party has to put more effort in than the other, while in other situations, it's evenly spread. Of course, it can also become a very sick relationship when it's All Take And No Give. This trope comes in two flavors with a middle ground.

In the first variant, the Taker knows the Giver is insecure and wants to feel needed and wanted, so they manipulate and extort the Giver into giving them what they want in exchange for morsels of affection. These relationships are typically led by a domineering bratty half-pint, a more sinister fantasy-forbidding father or clingy jealous girl over an extreme doormat.

The other variant is a bit more disturbing. Rather than the Taker being in charge, it's the Giver who is in control. It's not that they're pathologically compelled to generosity, but a deep desire to control and even own the Taker... so they work to make them completely psychologically and physically dependent, and may in fact cripple their ability to do some (or all) things. This is the hallmark of my beloved smother, who may impair or retard their child's growth to keep them dependent. If romantic, the Giver may be a stalker with a crush or a yandere who has managed to start a relationship with their target and then proceeded to demolish their self esteem in the guise of "helping" them. Expect them to say "I did it all for you", and justify alienating the Taker from past friends because "they were holding you back." If the Taker should realize this and work up the resolve to break the cycle, the Giver will not be pleased.

The middle ground is akin to the masochism tango, both the Giver and the Taker are in a deeply co-dependent relationship they can't break out of. Maybe they're a Sugar Daddy and a shop happy floozy, a parent who can't stand to say "no" and an emotionally needy spoiled brat, or an indulgent monarch raising a royal brat. In all variations, both participants will be unwilling or unable to leave, change or even identify the relationship.

Expect the Giver to say a variation of "I give and I give, and you take and you take" with one of two possible inflections, feigned suffering meant to guilt trip the Taker, or resigned exasperation as they once again give in.

Compare taking advantage of generosity (although that doesn't require a couple). Contrast ignored enamored underling and unrequited love in general, which are akin to "All Give And No Take".

  In   Kagetora and Naoe's relationship in   Unsui and Agon of  Ui and Yui of  This is what  Partway through  A type 2 relationship becomes motive for murder in  At the beginning of  In   Harley Quinn is like this to her beloved,         In  Columbia to Frank in   In  In  This is basically  In  And another  In  In one lesser-known story by German author  In  In   In Alma Katsu's  Most of Julias relationships in  The   In the second season of   Al Bundy's family is like this on    On  Fans of  On  Pretty much the relationship between the Winchesters and Castiel, from  The title character from   Sheldon Cooper from  Although we never meet Rick's parents (who are explicitly stated to be upper-class conservatives) on  The Barone family are a seemingly dysfunctional example of this dynamic in  In  Burt Bacharach's theme  The narrator of " The narrator of "Let Me Be Your Armor" by Assemblage 23 is a very possessive Giver.

 "Grenade" by  "Manchild" by  "Let Me Live" by  "Everything She Wants" by Wham. The whole song really, but especially:

   "Why Don't You Get a Job?" by  "In The Year 2525" by Zager and Evans paints man's relationship with the Earth this way (an opinion that's not entirely unfounded):

 Main character Pink, of  Elly Patterson of  Carol, the secretary to  Roxanne of  In the  Howard and Angelica's relationship functions as an all give and no take relationship in  Sekai and Setsuna of   In  In  Fuzzy from    Lampshaded in  In  Bloo in  One line from a song in  Mr. Burns is like this to Smithers on  This is the main  Dodie Bishop is this in  Patrick from   This is disturbingly common in relationships between  This is all too often the result of a misunderstanding of the "Master/slave" or "Dominance/submission" portions of the BDSM lifestyle, especially as perceived by those who have not been in such a relationship. It is also exists for real in the BDSM community to the point where older members caution newbies against it.

 Babies are incapable of being anything other than the Taker. This changes when they grow up,  Many friendships and relationships end up like this, as mentioned in the introduction. Usually ending up in a estrangement, break up, "not being friends anymore" or divorce. It never works long term.

 This is pretty much the lifestyle of all parasitic animals; indeed, the definition of "parasitism" is "A symbiotic relationship in which one organism (the parasite) benefits and the other (the host) is generally harmed".

