The character who is the best-of-the-best with a supporting cast that can't catch up comes across someone even better than them; someone more powerful than the super hero, or more skilled than the ninja, or smarter than the professor, or richer and more important than the rich important guy, or a better banjo player than the master banjo player, etc.

It's not uncommon for the characters to be siblings, not unlike the aloof big brother — e.g. sam malone's brother was more popular than him, adrian monk's brother was better at deduction. The classic better sibling is, of course, mycroft holmes, better known as "Sherlock Holmes' smarter brother."

By the end of the story, one of three things has usually happened: the regular character has been totally humiliated trying to beat the other character; he has grown up and realized that he just doesn't need to be the best, and becomes happy being second best; or has bested their superior. The most common ways for besting them in action shows is by outwitting or tricking them, finding their achilles' heel, using a forgotten superweapon, getting into an unstoppable rage, or just a good old-fashioned david versus goliath confrontation. Sometimes, the character just has to get over their mental block/self-esteem issue, which was the problem all along.

This is generally just a one-shot character, but in continuing, action-oriented shows, this character can sometimes turn into a recurring villain or big bad with whom the Hero develops a rivalry. In many cases, the rivalry is entirely one-sided — either the rival doesn't know that his challenger exists or (much to the mortification and fury of the Hero) likes the Hero and considers them a friend, and thus doesn't enjoy competing with them; there may even be something the Hero possesses which the rival character envies. In other situations, the better character is a jerkass who just loves to lord his superiority over the Hero.

Sometimes overlaps with the ace. In a monster protection racket, a character can seem this way before they're revealed. See also always second best, second place is for losers, and the b grade,

