There's a character who aims to improve his/her situation in life, be it in terms of money, fame or power. There is a high probablity of this character starting out as evil or becoming evil very quickly. The visionary villain and well-intentioned extremist will do horrible things to achieve their positive goal; the social darwinist will commit every act of sabotage and supterfuge to move up the ranks; the corrupt corporate executive began as a nice guy who wanted to be rich, etc. Upon attaining this power, he'll likely forget whatever it was he wanted it for in the first place. A tale of tragedy for the one who dared to be ambitious is likely.

Fictional and Real Life moral codes have a tendency to demonstrate selfishness, greed, pride, megalomania, and Machiavellian chronic backstabbing disorder as a consequence of the catch-all term "ambition". If you consult a dictionary it's broader than that. Ambition is the same thing that motivates some heroes to make the world a better place, but in that case it's more likely to be called "hope".This trope is one of the reasons why villains act, heroes react. Villains who don't have great ambitions would not plot grand schemes and motivate story driving conflicts such as world domination or utopia justifies the means, and therefore, would be boring and petty. It is possible to write an "ambitionless" villain - see for the evulz - but has a risk of being considered a generic doomsday villain.

justified when the existing society is an evil dystopia, or otherwise flawed — "advancing" in such a society would mean complying with or encouraging its systemic injustices. Also justified when ambition, or other emotions, is the personification of evil itself.Can happen as a result of status quo is god. Normally used as an anvilicious aesop about What's Really Important. Unfortunately ends up in a broken aesop that teaches us evil is cool (or at least open to social progress).the svengali, since his goal is usually to profit through his (supposed) protege, will usually be an example of this, and turn his protege into one, unless they realize in time.

This is not an uncommon trait of the starscream; indeeed, it's often what makes them the starscream.

The heroic converse of this trope is to be a master where the hero is motivated by ambition. Note that heroes tend to pursue "healthy" goals such as strength and knowledge, while villains are more likely to be after power or money, usually for their own benefit and no one else's and at other people's expense.

For some reason, while even high levels of ambition are bad, equal or greater levels of determination are usually seen as good, or at least not bad. If you have high levels of both, you're the unfettered. Heaven help the character intending to use their super powers this way; it guarantees screw the rules, i have supernatural powers!. If a character wants to rise above the level of his or her fellows, it might be a case of the complainer is always wrong.

This, in a way, is the reverse of living is more than surviving - in that achieving more than the most basic things people can do is seen as good, in contrast to this trope.

See also pride, personal gain hurts and evil virtues. Contrast with self-made man, who did pursue his ambitions, and isn't evil, as well any rags to riches story where the protagonist meant to become rich.

