the hero has hurt in his backstory. a world of hurt. Or worse, he had to shoot the dog and is wracked with guilt. Or both.

Not that he will show it, not him, not the stoic. (Perhaps just on this topic, but that's where it hurts.) He won't even say don't you dare pity me!; he would if someone sympathized, but his pain is too hidden for anyone to think of pitying him. He won't even suffer a not so stoic moment. Or sand in my eyes.

So how do you show the readers (and sometimes the other characters) he's not actually just cold and heartless? How do you humanize him without character derailment? Or inappropriate character development for the story?

You give him Bad Dreams.

There are various options: Mildest, he can be restless in bed or  Show the dream sequence, showing his terror and a remarkably lucid account of the trauma (possibly a  Have him As soon as he wakes (often by sitting up in bed), he will be back to normal. However, he may suffer insomnia, which can reach dangerous proportions if they are recurring dreams. If he woke everyone else screaming, he will apologize for disturbing them. Usually. Once in a while, someone will actually admit to a secret at this point; this can be unrealistically beneficial. If the character suffers from go mad from the isolation, he will often not be able to remember that he is safe until several moments after waking.

If it stemmed from my greatest failure, may overlap with anxiety dreams, and be fixed with it if the character tackles the problem the second time round.

Visions about bad things, whether past, present, or future, or plain old ordinary dreams that are just unpleasant, are not Bad Dreams; Bad Dreams indicate trauma. (And truth in television, really can stem from trauma.)

Can be used to show the extent of trauma for any person, but obviously more likely for the Stoic, the emotionless girl, broken bird , and the like. Or in cases where the character would never show his pain before a particular person. On the other hand, it is a convincing way of demonstrating trauma for, and humanizing, anyone, since you can't fake dreams. May be used to reveal the true character of no hero to his valet (type 2). Or demonstrate that being evil sucks. Or to show that the alcoholic is drowning my sorrows. the captain is prone to Bad Dreams because he cannot show weakness in front of his men and feels responsible for them.

your worst nightmare may be mistaken for Bad Dreams. When the character suffers from trauma-induced amnesia, often overlaps with dreaming the truth.

Contrast dreaming of things to come. When the dreams are symbolic, they can not always be distinguished; dreams of a villain could be remembering the past encounters, or foreshadowing future ones. Also contrast talking in your dreams. The character may not be able to tell that someone is communicating because the means are bringing up memories.

May be a fever dream episode. Supertrope of flashback nightmare, which always shows the nightmare and is literal. These are often recurring dreams, at least by implication. May be caused by buried memories from alternate identity amnesia.

