You're watching a movie or something, and there's some character who may or may not be rumoured to be kind of evil, but you don't know for sure. All you know is what he's doing right this minute is kind of endearing from an audience perspective. He's fun, he's cool. Quirky, maybe, but in a good way. At this rate, he'll be a runaway favourite with the fans. Yeah, he's fun. We like him. He's...

Wait, what's he doing now? Oh God, not the dog! nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo! that bastard, he's no longer a favorite from now on!Kind of a cross between pet the dog and kick the dog, but the pet the dog action needn't be nice - any combination of cool, badass and funny works just as well, as long as it's all calculated by the writer to get you on this character's side. Kind of a bait-and-switch technique for viewer sympathy. Distinct from face-heel turn because the character was always this much of a psycho, but the audience just hadn't seen it yet, though they may have heard that they did something bad offscreen. It's generally always done purely to accentuate a kick the dog moment - you see a bit of personal quirkiness or interesting backstory that has you liking this character, that has you 'on their side', and then they do something really really nasty, and as a viewer you feel worse because you're guilty by association. This is anything that makes you squeal, 'But we liked him!'

Compare/contrast the other tropey the wonder dog tropes, especially pet the dog and kick the dog. If it's the series itself that seems relatively harmless until it happens, there may be a dead star walking indicating that anyone can die. Can induce mood whiplash. Also compare and contrast with villainy discretion shot; oftentimes the only line separating this trope from that one is that we see the dog kicking moment in gory detail. A bait the dog moment can subvert an establishing character moment, or it might show that the character is more complex than first apparent. Often a bitch in sheep's clothing, ironically, or perhaps fittingly enough. Also see evil all along and faux affably evil.

This is ultimately a betrayal trope (of audience expectations if not other characters in-universe), so there will be spoilers. Sensitive details are spoiler-tagged, but many names are not.

