One of the most common types of love triangle, named after characters from archie comics, wherein the main character ("Archie") is caught between two love interests with drastically different personalities. "Betty" is the sweet, reliable, everyday girl next door type (which could mean "kind of dull"), while "Veronica" is more alluring, exotic, and edgy, but has more of a mischievous or icy personality (which could mean "kind of a bitch"). This translates to their physical appearances; Betty will be pretty but modest in dress, while Veronica will be ms. fanservice in all her glory. As a rule, they will have different hair colors as per the blonde, brunette, redhead trope.

This trope is almost endlessly flexible. In a commonly-seen version, Betty is Archie's loyal comrade and usually his best friend, secretly pining for him while he (unaware of her feelings) is attracted only to Veronica, the sultry Ms. Unattainable who barely notices him. Betty, who wants archie to be happy, may assist him in his pursuit of Veronica, even though we all know how much she wants him for herself. Another possibility is that Archie and Betty are already in a relationship, but then Veronica starts batting her eyelashes at him (or her!), causing friction between the couple. In cases of arranged marriage, Betty is the girl the parents prefer and veronica is the one they reject, especially if children are expected (because Betty is more likely to want them). When Archie meets Betty and Veronica at the same time — if they are sisters, for example — he will fall in love at first sight with Veronica and only notice Betty after she had time to grow on him (as, for instance, when he often comes to their parents' to try to woo Veronica).

"Archie," "Betty," and "Veronica" can be any gender or orientation, though the gentleman or the scoundrel is a possible spear counterpart specific to the situation of a female Archie and two male suitors. Another variant is rich suitor, poor suitor, with a rich but douchey "Veronica" and a poor but kindhearted "Betty", or a rich and kind but boring "Betty" and a spirited blue-collar "Veronica."

Whom the hero will end up with varies according to medium, story, and the values of the time period and culture where the story was made. Traditionally, Betty stood a better chance, at least if the story had a happy ending, due to conforming to social standards, while choosing Veronica would only lead the poor sap into ruin. Usually, the hero would spend the story chasing veronica only to realize that betty was the one — complete with a convenient 'appreciate what you've got' or true beauty is on the inside Aesop. However, as attitudes to what is 'appropriate' sexual conduct have liberalized, it's more accepted for Veronica to have a chance at winning a happy ending too, if not with the main hero, then as part of a beta couple. Movies have traditionally favored Betty, but video games, comics, and TV shows (especially long runners) have played this trope for all it's worth. In genderflipped cases, the Veronica usually has the edge, especially if the story is aimed at women, and if the (male) Betty wins, you can bet the fanfic writers will race to fix that.

In case this wasn't complicated enough, sometimes a third-option love interest makes their presence known to shake things up even further. Look up cock fight for the almost-literal spear counterpart.

Movies have lately come to a compromise with the manic pixie dream girl; cute and non-threatening, yet exciting and different. Video games with multiple endings get to take a third option by letting the player choose who the hero ends up with. Comic book and TV show franchises tend to have negative continuity over the long term due to constantly rebooting their origins to avoid continuity lockout.

Compare the admirable one and sexy one of the four girl ensemble as well as the wife and seductress of the three faces of eve. Betty might be the Light Feminine while Veronica is the Dark Feminine in light feminine and dark feminine.

Do be aware that fans like to exaggerate potential relationships; shipping would not exist without it. As a result there are likely to be multiple instances of an official couple (vindicated by word of god) that has some sort of fanon-based "romantic rival" mirroring this trope. Even shows without such romantic entanglements in-universe can inspire Betty/Veronica debates amongst the fandom; hence, mary ann/ginger, bailey/jennifer, janet/chrissy, velma/daphne, etc.

A very small number of these scenarios, particularly in more recent times or exotic settings, the betty and veronica conflict may be resolved by the triangle becoming a one true threesome, or giving them a marry them all ending. This is particularly prevalent in fan works.

See also betty and veronica switch, where the presumed Betty and Veronica somehow switch roles.

        