war is hell? Not for this guy.

Fighting is everything to the Blood Knight. He lives for it. He might deliberately disadvantage himself in order to make fights last longer and loves to reveal that he is not left-handed. It's not so much about winning or losing, morality, the motives of his allies, or even the glory, that drives this guy so much as it is the opportunity for a good fight.

A Blood Knight can be of any morality whatsoever. The most intense ones put their love of fighting above good and evil. If heroic, they will frequently be the big guy in an ensemble, the character most likely to solve his problems by force of arms. They might make the less violent members of the crew a little nervous, especially if they go off on a hair trigger. If an antagonist, he has a good chance of being a worthy opponent, since he doesn't want to defeat the heroes, necessarily, just fight them. He might undergo a heel-face turn if he can find someone tough enough to beat him and join the hero's team, or simply betray his boss to pursue and obsess over his foe on his own terms.

Less pleasant characters with this trait may exist, especially if they are also the big bad or their right hand men who will do all kinds of horrible things to trigger his opponent's berserk button enough to fight seriously and give them a challenge. This type overlaps heavily with psycho for hire.

Personality-wise, he can be a flat character (and quite possibly dumb muscle) which just shouts "maim! kill! burn!", or, if he's a little more sophisticated/developed, he can be a warrior therapist, warrior poet or even a genius bruiser. The latter cases are rare. He might be a normal, jocular guy when he's not brawling, or he might take the fight so seriously that he blocks out everything else and will therefore live only for battle. In some cases the Blood Knight fights because he's looking for a way to die with meaning.

The Blood Knight doesn't even have to be a particularly violent man most of the time. A common version found in Eastern fiction is the Wandering Martial Artist, who is walking the earth looking for strong opponents to test his skills against. This might be coupled with a love of fair duels and a desire to challenge the best and strongest. This type still enjoys the thrill of the fight, but usually eschews the death and bloodshed aspect. A living opponent, after all, can improve their skills and provide an even better challenge later. defeat equals friendship is a common occurrence with these guys, their opponent's or their own.

If there's a whole society of guys like him, you've got a proud warrior race. If the character likes the 'killing' part more than the 'fighting' part, they're a psycho for hire. The egomaniac hunter also thrives on aimless violent thrill and loves a worthy quarry instead of opponent. If a character is in it for the challenge rather than just the fight, then we've got a spirited competitor. The Blood Knight's love of combat may be platonic, or it may have sexual undertones. It also may overlap with ax-crazy if their love of fighting crosses the line into psychotic violence and instability.

sub-trope of in harm's way. sister trope to combat sadomasochist, the real man, and boisterous bruiser. Compare cavalier competitor. May be from a martyrdom culture and will nearly always believe that war is glorious. If he (or she, though it's much rarer) is in the military, then he would almost inevitably be a colonel kilgore. A monster knight has a high chance of being one. A more violent example that nonetheless fights for the side of good might also be a sociopathic hero. Not to be confused with the knight of blood, who is very unlike this trope.

Oh, and just in case it wasn't clear, the character doesn't have to be a literal knight for this trope to apply. It is about the attitude, not the rank.

