The Born Winner is a badass. Of course they are; they were born that way. Born Winners are badasses because of what they are rather than what they do. They're Aliens among puny earthlings, demons among mortals, robots among meatbags, or a magic-user among muggles. the hero is usually the Born Winner; if there's a group of people besides "normal" humans, the main character will be one, or at least partially. If other's in the setting have superpowers, expect the Born Winner to have won the super power lottery by comparison. If the hero is a Born Winner, the rival usually will be too. Usually, a mundane human will be part of the main character's true companions and generally be able to hold their own at first, but as the sorting algorithm of evil kicks in, expect them to be overshadowed by awesome or even killed off for real in order to fuel the main character's unstoppable rage.

The heart of this trope is that a Born Winner is absurdly powerful because they were born that way, not because of anything they ever did. They have some innate trait that makes them awesome; no one lacking that trait can ever acquire it, any anyone without it is doomed to mediocrity. Done badly, it comes off as a cheap ploy to make the born winner seem more awesome by dropping the effectiveness of his companions to somewhere just above that of the red shirt army (and often has a this loser is you side effect, seeing as viewers would presumably identify more easily with the now-useless badass normal than the alien/demon/vampire/whatever Born Winner). When it's done well, it can be a compelling reason for why the main character is the only one without relying on a blatant because destiny says so.

sub-trope of superior successor.

Compare puny earthlings, where the earthlings are so puny that not even training from hell or a charles atlas superpower lets them overcome it; they simply can't catch up. Born Winners are a leading reason why hard work hardly works. They may or may not have been born lucky. Beware those who are weak, but skilled, though...

