He's tall, charming, and strikingly good looking, well-spoken in five different languages, and classically trained in even more instruments. He's the big man on campus, former president of the absurdly powerful student council, valedictorian, and working on his doctorate in a scientific field that a peon like you can't even pronounce. he always wears a suit... Until the eventual shirtless scene during his (strenuous) exercise routine, that is. he has a lovely smile.But inside, he's an ugly, writhing mass of self-hatred and possibly parental issues.

He comes in two flavors: The one who happens to be great at everything, and is loved and respected by the people around him - but he's using his charm and talents  The one who Expect him to have at least one bizarre trait or ability that should not be overlooked, as well as a completely unhealthy attitude about love, life, and humanity in general. He most likely doesn't have anyone that loves or respects him for what he really is. this may be justified.In the most cynical works on the sliding scale, he'll be a serial killer, or at least a future one.

This character is usually male, but not always. Also, he's not always evil - maybe just a well-hidden jerkass. The chief difference between the Broken Ace and the usually female stepford smiler is that the Stepford Smiler wants to appear normal at all costs, often to the point of hurting herself emotionally (or because she's sociopathic). This guy has the same setup, but is more talented and wants to be the best, loved by all, and accepted. The debilitating personal issues which he's hiding are only getting worse because of being repressed and the stress of his efforts to excel, and these sorts of characters are prime jerkass woobie material.

See also the ace, who's still better than you at everything but isn't so prone to mental disorders or emotional problems, and the byronic hero, who's just as awe-inspiring and brooding but lacks the charming, polished façade and is rarely presented as pathetic. For a plot wherein The Ace is revealed to have deep personal problems, see broken pedestal. In case you haven't noticed, this has nothing to do with asexuality.

In real life, this is rather common. Real people have flaws no matter how perfect they seem to be at first glance.

