An insincere atoner attempts by his good deeds to stifle any guilt he feels, or buy off his victims so they will not seek revenge when they learn he has wronged them. He often resorts to material assistance, because personal help prods his conscience and makes him feel worse.

Generally, he regards his evil deeds as not so much offset by his good deeds as obliterated by them — at least, he professes to believe it, though some hints may seep through that he knows that it was wrong. On the other hand, may slide into it's all about me; the problem is not what he did, but what he feels about it, or the chance of Revenge.

Often his evil deeds are discovered long after the fact, to cast a respective light on his good deeds.

phony psychic uses this as a common ploy.

May be a form of screw the rules, i have money!, but the character does not have to be richer than others. Compare every man has his price for "bribery" in a more generic sense. See must make amends or apology gift for when the efforts are sincere.

 Subverted in  In   The Nobles of  Pretty much the entire plot behind  In  In  Played for humor at the end of  In  In  In  In  In  In  In  In Alex Bledsoe's  The main characters try this in  In the  In  The  In  In  Backstory to  All the time in the  Jayne Cobb from  At one point in  In  In   Dan Scott in  A last-season episode of  On  The  Policeman Olim in Kurt Weill's music theatre    Similar to the  Also done in  A heroic example can be found in  The  As repeatedly cited in  As mentioned in  The Roman Republic enshrined this principle in its basic law, the Twelve Tables, which imposed a fixed fine for common assault, payable to the person who was assaulted. (The fine was a large one, but regrettably, the Romans never quite got around to adjusting it for inflation. By the time of Julius Caesar, repeated debasements of the currency had rendered the fine almost worthless, and rich sociopaths used to walk down the streets punching people in the face and immediately handing over the small bag of copper coins that, by law, was all the compensation their victims were entitled to.)

