Some talented characters like to use their skills to drift through life as effortlessly as possible. well, this is not that trope, but the exact opposite.

Usually driven and ambitious, this character aims to constantly hone his skills by tackling challenges that push his abilities to the limit, and enjoys every minute of it. The harder the challenge, the better; they may even become bored with easy tasks or disappointed if something turns out to be easier than they expected.

Often a determinator, because the more they get beat down, the more excited and fired up they get. May overlap with hot-blooded. Likely to jump at the call. Such characters often come across the ace and find out there's always someone better, but rather than create a bitter rivalry, they tend to be much more friendly about it, which may lead to foe yay.

sister trope of spirited competitor, but this type of character doesn't necessarily need a worthy opponent to compete against. It's more about the game/sport than who they play against, although they will usually be happy to have a worthy friendly rival who can challenge them and test their skills. shōnen anime protagonists in particular tend to exhibit this trope, especially those who "wanna be the very best."

Compare the blood knight, for those who specifically like a good fight.

truth in television - the challenge gamer is this in real life applied to video games. Many, though not all, fans of competitive activities like sports are like this too. It can be fun to train and practice and challenge like minded people as you improve your skills.

 Endou in  This is a lot of the stronger characters in the  Kenpachi from   From  One of the defining features of  In  Also from  Darius Walker from  Thunder Flicker from  In  Zaroff in  Valmont in   Wulfrik the Wanderer of  Despite having ulterior goals,  Vyse fits certainly the bill. In  Othello, from  Zer0 of  Levi the Slasher in  One of the reasons that  The  Stinkoman from  Sixshot, the  Formula One driver 