There's a subtle distinction between stupid evil and Chaotic Stupid. Sure, the Chaotic Stupid character is also likely to kick the dog. But he's just as likely to pet the dog, Shave The Dog, Paint The Dog Purple, or even Ignore The Dog Entirely To Run Off Chasing Butterflies. In short, the 'true' Chaotic Stupid character is the one who thinks that being chaotic neutral means being downright insane. And by "insane", we mean more gogo dodo than hannibal lecter.

This guy's willing to prove his madness at any time he feels it needs proving, which is all the time. Expect all sorts of "wacky hijinx" from talking in word salad to annoying important npcs (as well as the other players) with stupid jokes. While a little comic relief can be refreshing once in a while, the Chaotic Stupid character takes it to a level which threatens to turn the entire game into a farce, or even gets the other party members killed. Suffice to say, the Chaotic Stupid should never be let within ten feet of any sort of magic, especially the type that can be exploded in the middle of the party for multiple d6s of damage. He's also at a risk of suffering from chronic backstabbing disorder, but it might not be lethal to whoever he betrayed, since he's as likely to kill them as he is to pull down their pants.

Often overlaps with the loonie, a player archetype from the famed munchkin Files. Needless to say, several player's handbooks have attempted to disabuse clueless players of the notion that chaos is a blank check to loosen their screws. Though the Second Edition Advanced Dungeons and Dragons Player's Handbook described chaotic neutral as the alignment of "lunatics and madmen", even this wasn't intended to be Chaotic Stupid (although the example Chaotic Neutral party member in the party of all alignments was most definitely Chaotic Stupid, randomly yelling at the top of his lungs and doing a suicidal charge at the dragon and getting roasted). The various incarnations of the Third Edition rules said of the chaotic neutral alignment, "Remember that the chaotic neutral character may be unpredictable, but his behavior is not totally random. He's not as likely to jump off a bridge as to cross it." Some people just didn't get the memo, though.

Often an underlying reason to attack! attack! attack! and leeroy jenkins. Compare too dumb to live, it amused me. For what happens when other alignments are played to a degree it becomes stupid, see stupid good, lawful stupid, stupid evil, and stupid neutral.

