Character Alignment is a shorthand for a given character's (or religion's, society's, organization's, etc.) moral/ethical outlook on life, the universe and everything. Many roleplaying games use some sort of alignment system as a karma meter, an "ideal" for a character to live up to, or just a descriptive shorthand for characters, though some gamers deride them as crutches to "real roleplaying," and some systems accordingly have none at all.

Always remember that the vast majority of characters in fiction are not tabletop game characters, and therefore lack a canonical interpretation of alignment by the standards below. Characters should only be categorized under them when their alignments are clearly and explicitly stated in canon. As both the standards and especially character personalities are vague, complicated to interpret, and subject to change with character development, thus leading to endless debate, the assignment of alignments to characters not stated to have them is considered strictly subjective.

The alignment system most roleplayers are familiar with is the one used in Dungeons & Dragons, which has appeared in a couple of different forms:

The original editions of Dungeons & Dragons drew on the works of poul anderson and michael moorcock to come up with three alignments: lawful, neutral, and chaotic, with Lawful representing honor and obedience to, well, law. Chaotic characters may be insane, but could lean towards a desire for the freedom to do what they want. Whether they do good or evil because of this freedom is what decides their moral leaning. Neutrality alternatively represents neither one (as was the case with animals and people who simply didn't care) or a desire to see "balance" between the two. Later editions kept this as the "ethical" axis of the alignment scale and added a second "moral" axis of Good, Neutral, and Evil.

The ethical axis was more one's attitude towards the position of society and rules: Lawful characters think having an ordered society is important and beneficial; Chaotic characters don't necessarily oppose this but think the freedom of the individual comes first; Neutral characters tend to judge such situations on a case by case basis. If a law was unjust, a lawful person might think it needs retooling, or say that it prevents more problems than it causes. A neutral person might see the need for such a law, but would still think it should be scrapped and redone from scratch. A chaotic person would probably just break it.

This is sometimes lumped in with two different attitudes: whether the character in question believes that the universe as a whole is orderly, and how the character conducts his life, with plans or flying by the seat of his pants. This can produce considerable confusion, as the three levels can exist in any combination.

The "moral" axis can be adequately explained by the focus of those morals: Good people generally focus on you (they feel that they should help everyone else when possible). Neutrals are usually focused on us, meaning their family and friends (they can be charitable, but their "circle" always comes first), though they can display elements of me (in that they tend to look out for themselves and are uninterested in the affairs of others). Evil people are generally me focused (often at the expense of other's misfortune). However, like good, evils can also focus on you (but instead of aid and kindness, when those who are evily aligned focus on others it is with an emphasis on destruction and suffering).

Combining the two axes allowed characters to be of nine possible alignments, as follows:         It helps to think of it as a 3x3 square with the moral and ethical axes on each side, and all the possible alignments surrounding true neutral like so:

The alignment any particular character falls under is mostly a matter of opinion in works other than tabletop games, where it's usually spelled out (and even then, fans are likely to spill a lot of words about how the creator got the character's alignment wrong). It's also generally only important in tabletop games, but that doesn't stop RPG fans from discussing what alignment characters in every other work they like would be — just for fun, try Googling 'punisher alignment', or better yet, Google Site Search it on an RPG-oriented forum. This is why most of the above statements about which alignment a character "probably" is are qualified (and, incidentally, why none of the examples is the punisher). There will always be a counter-interpretation.This is the concept that gives lawful stupid, chaotic stupid, stupid good, stupid evil, stupid neutral, and always chaotic evil their names. Expect a setting that explicitly uses alignment to make frequent use of order versus chaos and balance between good and evil type plots. The karma meter is a way for video games to represent this. Working out a specific character's alignment is subject to alternate character interpretation, values dissonance, and let's not forget mountains of fan dumb. Arguments about what the alignments themselves mean often get into the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism.

As the quote for lawful stupid, chaotic stupid shows, the alignment system was and is meant to be a roleplaying tool (every DnD manual from 2E on mentions this fact). Most players of any TTRPG involving one tend to ignore this, and either ignore their alignment or treat it as a character shackle. This truth in and of itself is the reason so many subtropes (and arguments) based on this concept exist.

If someone is having difficulty depicting a character of a particular alignment because of the alignment, or in imagining how to do so sensibly, it's probably because they're putting the cart before the horse. Alignment isn't personality and doesn't determine it. Personality determines alignment. You should first come up with the personality and see how the character functions based on it, and then see which alignment it fits. For example, instead of presenting chaotic evil as doing random evil acts for no reason, you might come up with a character who thinks the only way to get by is to dominate everyone else by using physical violence, and is willing to apply this method at the least provocation, lest he seem "weak", not caring that he hurts others — and then realise his behaviour and attitude amount to a kind of Chaotic Evil, this time with a reason.

A meme on a certain imageboard is creating motivational posters of various characters from fiction and real life with a caption explaining their alignment. The ultimate example being a 3x3 grid showing every alignment with varying pictures and captions, but the same subject: batman.

As with all good concepts, it's very ripe for parody — there are such motivational posters of alignments including "Chaotic Awesome" (for cartman) and "Chaotic Gorgeous" (Evanna Lynch's portrayal of luna lovegood).

This website is also quite helpful in explaining the concept of Character Alignment, and has further info on the nine different alignments.

As a general rule, do not add Character Alignment to any work where it is not featured in canon. the great character alignment debate explains this in more detail.

See also unconventional alignment, lawful stupid, chaotic stupid, stupid good, stupid evil, stupid neutral, always chaotic evil, good and evil for your convenience. The mirror morality machine will invert any alignment... except for true neutral; the opposite of zero is still zero.

Due to the controversial nature of this trope, and not to mention, it's considered shoe-horning to categorize people with these kind of tropes,  The one exception is outlines of actual real life proposed systems (such as the four humors theory).

Examples of Works/Settings With Explicit Character Alignment: