Once again, the villain has gotten out of the cardboard prison. But this time, they've just served their sentence, with possible time off for good behavior, and guess what? They're no longer interested in crime, they just want to be an upstanding citizen. The system works!

And if you believe that, I've got a slightly used death ray to sell you. This is usually just a ruse on the part of the villain, who's plotting his crimes in secret. It may even be part of an elaborate scheme to get the heroes to drop their guard and insinuate the villain as a heel face mole.

An important part of this plot is that everyone else will usually believe the villain right away, it's the heroes who are made to look like fools by their paranoid suspicions. This can veer into through the eyes of madness territory. The villain may set up a situation that looks like he's up to his old tricks, so that the heroes will come barging in to stop his... perfectly lawful activities. This makes the villain look like an innocent victim of petty harassment and discredits any heroes who continue to suspect that he's still up to no good.

Sometimes the villain is so proficient at leading a normal life that you have to wonder why they even bother with being a villain. Couldn't they just get someone to cut lex luthor a check? This is more plausible if the villain is just insane or motivated by animosity toward the heroes.

In particularly tragic instances of this, the villain really does reform, but the mistrust from their environment (and possibly the hero in particular) convinces them it's not worth it, and they go back to villainy.

Compare heel-face turn, where the villain becomes an out-and-out hero. Likewise compare chronic villainy for when a villain sincerely attempts to reform but cannot get over his old obsessions. Also compare reformed, but rejected, where the villain really does give up his evil ways — but the hero still doesn't believe it. See also then let me be evil, where a character (re)turns to evil because everyone treats them with suspicion.

