Quite self-explanatory: a character who is characterized by his/her intense professionalism and intolerance of the lack thereof in others.

The Consummate Professional is most often a very serious character, and often involved in a profession that warrants violence or is on the shadier side of the law like a soldier of fortune, professional spy, courier, or professional assassin. Regardless of precisely who employs them or what their actual job is, being a consummate professional is standard for men in black types as well. Alternatively, he can also belong to a more conventional profession, but be ruthlessly dedicated to it, such as a profession in the legal system or a corporate position. He has a very strict code of conduct to which he adheres meticulously, and instantly dislikes anyone who implies he should lighten up. He also instantly dislikes anyone who's a little too friendly (after all, being personal isn't professional). This attitude is most of the time justified: his line of work makes any personal connection or moral compunction a liability. This doesn't mean he's a complete cold fish, it just means he prefers ethics to morals. Morals are broad and prone to emotional interpretation, ethics are specific and more efficient. While he might be willing to have a softer disposition towards friends or family, any client is treated impersonally and no better than the job demands.

The Consummate Professional is also recognized for his uncanny talent at his chosen profession. His no-nonsense attitude has allowed him to hone his skill to an almost supernatural degree, to the point his name (if actually known) becomes synonymous with excellence in his line of work. Be it playing the stock market, performing a military mission or killing a mark, he baffles others with his complete control and superlative skills. If he's on the shadier side of the law, don't ever call him a criminal or compare him to common thugs, that's a wonderful way to end up in traction. He is first and foremost a professional, he is by definition above such scum because of his code. And for pete's sake, don't invoke a contract on the hitman. As for a professional in a legitimate profession, he might be ruthless, but he's never corrupt. He does not need to cheat or commit fraudulent actions; his skill places him beyond such petty strategies.

Do note of the more violently employed professionals, having a code is not the same as being a hitman with a heart: not killing innocents might just be a matter of convenience and avoiding unnecessary trouble, not any kind of conscience talking. In fact, one trait that's almost universal to this kind of character is that every time he lets things get personal, it always comes back to bite him.

Because his profession usually takes him places, expect a Consummate Professional to also be a cunning linguist and have large amounts of connections to various other professionals who can provide services for him. If he's a killer who likes taking his targets out from a distance, he'll universally be a cold sniper and almost always has improbable aiming skills.

