Similar to hollywood homely and hollywood dateless, and a very frequent protagonist of high school shows, this is when a character who is smart, funny, fashionable and good looking is portrayed as being much less popular than they would be in real life. Done deliberately to limit the circle of friends/cast as much as possible, thereby erasing the hassle of writing multiple, varying characterizations, while at the same time making the main character likable to the viewer. If this character is female, she is frequently a target of the alpha bitch. If is male, he is often the target of the jerk jock and/or the bully.

Unlike people who are hollywood homely, Cool Losers are not supposed to be considered unattractive, and unlike the hollywood nerd, the Cool Loser is not a geek or lacking in social skills. They just don't have many friends, don't get invited to the cool parties, and are generally treated like losers by most of their peers.

This often leads up to a big payoff, when the Cool Loser is briefly given a moment when they realize that more people do, in fact, like them more than they thought (usually when they are unexpectedly honoured at some manner of ceremony, such as a graduation). It's not explained why those honouring didn't demonstrate this in some way earlier (the few times it is, it's often explained as the rest of the student body fearing the alpha bitch, jerk jock, or other big man on campus so much, they didn't want to befriend the cool loser and become a target of their fury,) but it often comes in the form of a sweet gesture.

A very common signal of the cool loser will often involve being a member of the school paper (sabrina spellman, chloe sullivan, etc.) This is often seen as a gray area, doesn't carry the obvious negative "nerd" connotations of the Chess Club or the Mathletes, but also isn't seen as "cool" as sports teams or cheerleading.

Often overlaps with this loser is you. See also hollywood nerd. An informed loner is basically this, except they supposedly don't even want friends.

A bit of truth in television especially for females. An attractive female can still be the target of other jealous females or disgruntled ex-boyfriends often to tragic results.