It's only natural to cower in the face of danger. As such, many a classic distressed damsel and fearful child will cower behind the nearest love interest, parent, or big damn heroes when presented with peril. Of course, most conscientious heroes and even innocent bystanders will naturally interpose themselves anyway to protect other innocents (and perhaps pointlessly, but they do get props for chivalry). This kind of cowering stems from the classic pose of hero and heroine facing a monster on film posters for touch of the monster: the hero has a gun in one hand pointed at the beast, his other hand holding the love interest back, while she clutches his shoulder with one hand and covers her mouth from shock with the other.

There's another kind of character who cowers this way too, the dirty coward. He'll grab a nearby innocent bystander and use him as a human shield, hide behind the littlest cancer patient when the serial killer with a soft spot for kids shows up, and might even shove his love interest towards the martian woman stealer. Villains also tend to do this when faced with an implacable hero, inverting the cower by using the love interest to hide from him!Sometimes this is used for comedic effect, with a hero who is afraid of needles reacting with complete terror to mundane things, sometimes even jumping into his sidekick's arms or ducking behind his love interest like a distressed damsel. The fish out of water might hide from otherwise harmless things too (and notice who/what they're hiding behind looks far more threatening). See also pose of supplication.

Not to be confused with the former Head Coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers.

  In the second arc of  Played with in volume 3 of   Crane does this in  The book and movie of  In  In the second book of the   Doctor Smith from     On   In one episode of  In the  Appears on the backglass for  Natalya does this with James Bond on the  A favorite tactic of the heels, who are not above grabbing a female at ringside (either the face's girlfriend or their own) to stop from getting attacked, and then shoving said female into the opponent!  Leva Bates cowered behind the ring announcer when she realized Coastal Championship Wrestling was going to have her referee a match between   In   From one standpoint,  In the online game  In  In  In  In  In   In   Used in every  Fluttershy's default reaction to anything unexpected in  Rich Hall's 