

The Creature of Habit likes routine. It's as simple as that. No sarcasm, no stepford smiling, no threats of going insane from the monotony. They are honestly, perfectly content with doing the same thing day after day. The same places, the same people, the same errands and chores...to them, this is bliss.

They tend to be a source of puzzlement for more dynamic characters...or indeed, the audience themselves when values dissonance comes into play. Many cultures maintain that change is a good thing, and at the very least people should be ambitious and adaptable - who wants to stay stuck in a rut for all their lives? Particularly if the Creature of Habit is a pig-farmer in medieval England, or a peasant in the feudal age. Surely they would be glad to get out of there?

Not so. If offered the chance of change, the Creature of Habit may listen politely, be thoroughly uninterested, or even snap at the lack of respect for their viewpoint ("Look, I like being a servant, all right?!!"), but they will almost always decline. A higher calling or moral dilemma may get them to leave their old existence behind, but only reluctantly, and if possible they will return to the life they loved best when the crisis has passed.

Some versions are easygoing, while others verge on obsessive-compulsive, but neither likes change. They don't bother much about ambition, because ambition threatens the nice little groove they've established for themselves, although if a promotion is offered that's nearly identical to their current position they'll probably take it after some deliberation.

Unfortunately for the Creature of Habit, fiction does not respect their decision to live a quiet life. The rule of drama dictates that this is an interesting character to shove into fish out of water situations, be it through the revelation that they are an unlikely chosen one, or the end of the world as we know it blowing their old life to smithereens. After all, it's only when you upset their routine that the trouble starts. Tender-hearted creatures of habit may suffer a Heroic BSOD, or at least have their gentle natures shaken. Less benign examples often reveal their bossy, often officious nature and demonstrate why you should "beware the quiet ones." Usually, the writer decides that since "change is good", the creature of habit will adjust to their new existence and learn to enjoy it, even if they occasionally pine for the days when "adventure" was a really hot cup of tea and a new brand of chocolate biscuit.

slice of life stories, however, favour the creature of habit—their contented, slow nature suits the genre, and they may be the team mom or the earnest main character.

Often a trait of the everyman. When a Creature of Habit has his routine shot to pieces, with no chance of recovery, he'll probably become the unfazed everyman once he adjusts. Occasionally a trait of the brilliant, but lazy. If they are absolutely neurotic about the timing of their schedule—for example, they MUST wash their socks at exactly 6:05 pm every Tuesday and Thursday — then they aren't the Creature of Habit, but the much more energetic schedule fanatic.

Contrast with allergic to routine, who often pairs up with the Creature of Habit in odd couple situations, because of the domestic disharmony that results from their opposing needs.

See also: clock king.

