Quite often, especially in shows set in the 50s and 60s, the father figure will be a veteran. Whether he's a standard '50s father or an overprotective dad, he's capable of being a real hardcase in the right circumstances. Yes, even the Dads who appear to be nothing but creampuff can be tough guys when they need to be, and he bases it all on his years of military service.

Often this is pulled in situations where a younger (almost always male) character needs to be browbeaten or intimidated. Whether the dad was merely a Marine, or the equivalent of foxhound, at some point, they'll bring it up in a not-so-casual way when they need to remind the younger character that they aren't as soft and yielding as they seem to be.

Quite a few female characters are given a Veteran Dad as an excuse for why she's tough and independent, but it can also be a freudian excuse if he was a tyrannical martinet who lorded over his family with an iron hand. Sometimes this allows female characters to have access to unusual skills or assets, on the assumption that senior military officers use their aviation regiments as their kid's private chauffeurs.

This effect can also happen if Dad used to be a cop, or a government agent of some sort. In comedies, it often turns out that yeah, Dad was in the Army... but he was a cook, or a file clerk, or a mechanic, or had some other less than intimidating job.

This was a justified trope not too long ago for American families, given the almost back-to-back nature of world war ii, the korean war, and the vietnam war. Given the ongoing war on terror, one can expect this trope to come back into prominence. It shows up quite often when the plotline involves the generation gap.

it often coincides with the military brat trope. Since the  Betty Ross of  Kate Kane,  In  In  In  Played with in  Captain von Trapp in  The step-dad in  Played with in William Beamon's novel  In  Park's father from  Howard Cunningham from  Nikki's dad from   The Major from  Bill Engvall did this to his daughter's prom date on   In  The Dad in  Red Forman on    Martin from  Played with in  On  In   In  In  On  On  Actor Gerald McRaney often played Vietnam War veterans or other military character; with the example best fitting this trope being his role on  In  The music video of  In    In  Louie's dad in   On 