The Daytime Drama Queen is a predominantly American trope. If you want to show a character as sad, pathetic and in dire need of a life, show him watching and caring about the events of a soap opera. The most popular soap to care about seems to be Days of Our Lives, though a fictional, parodic soap works just as well.

This trope is mainly applied to unemployed men. Since they can't work, they have nothing better to do than stay at home and watch daytime soaps, and since watching soaps is generally seen as a female pastime, a man who does so is seen as having lost everything. May be slightly more positively portrayed as a hard man's only soft spot. Expect any character who mocks him for it to watch the show for five minutes and straight away get just as hooked on it.

In Britain, watching soaps is more acceptable, and since the better-quality soaps tend to be broadcast during primetime, daytime drama queens just don't show up so often on the European side of the pond. On the other hand, they've now got an entire television channel (called "Dave") that fills nearly the same role, a fact regularly mocked on Top Gear and the various BBC  it repeats ad nauseam. A closer British equivalent is to mock a character for watching daytime talk shows, such as Tricia or Jeremy Kyle, or daytime quiz shows like Countdown.

In Australia, this type of character does appear occasionally, but tends to be shown as addicted to American rather than Australian soaps due to their more over-the-top nature. In Latin America this type of character is virtually absent since soaps are, in most countries, pretty much the only kind of dramatic production locally produced; and given that in Hispanic culture soap operas are so far on the serious side of the scale that they are serious business, such a character would be seen as too aware for his own good, or a shot in the network's foot.

It's possible that this trope will die out in America and become a forgotten trope in the next decade. Five of the nine American daytime serials airing have been canceled since 2007 (Passions, Guiding Light, As the World Turns, All My Children, and One Life to Live). Only    and General Hospital remain, and many say they're on their last legs anyway.

See also explaining the soap. addictive foreign soap opera is a sister trope. Compare and contrast the hikikomori, who has similar social connotations of being a loser, but is usually more addicted to sci-fi and other geek stuff than to soap operas. Compare and contrast girl-show ghetto.

 When not being a psychotic gunslinger, Revy of  Quite a few  In  Chiun, Remo's Sinanju sensei in   In  In  David Sedaris is, or at least used to be, a daytime drama queen, which is    Averted with Spike on  In an episode of  In an episode of   House's  Ignacio on  Julius on  In  In one episode of  On  In a rare female example of this trope, Amy Matthews on  On  On  In  In an episode of  When a teacher's strike suspends school on  In the  In an episode of  Really Really Big Man from  In the  In  Big Bob Pataki of  On  On episode of  