A character who genuinely believes failure is the only option, yet presses on anyway. Sometimes, it's all too tempting for them to turn their back on their dreams, or let themselves plummet over the despair event horizon. Don't think they actually will though. If they ever do give up, you can bet it won't be for long. Often they feel their situation's so hopeless, they've got nothing to lose. After all, if there is nothing in the world but darkness, then all that matters is what you are in the dark.

super trope of sour supporter, when the defeatist is recruited to the team by the hero (and is usually a secondary character.)

Could be considered a sister trope to knight in sour armor. The difference between the knight in sour armor and the determined defeatist is that the latter isn't necessarily a snarky anti-hero who lives in a crapsack world; they're more likely to be the eeyore or the woobie. They might lack self-esteem, or be going through a rough patch. But in both cases, you can be sure their dogged perseverance will get them through despite their pessimistic outlook. Neither shaggy dog story nor shoot the shaggy dog bother them because they were expecting it.

A fair number of them, if they discover that defeat is not the only option, will also discover that hope is scary.

Also compare cowardly lion and the anti-nihilist. May overlap with iron woobie, as they keep going no matter how many times they get hurt or discouraged. If they refuse to let an innocent die even when there's a low chance of success, they are almost certainly a small steps hero. When it's time to motivate the troops, the best they can come up with might be "try not to die".

  Miranda Lotto from  Before her rematch against  Touma from  In  In  Fujimaru from  Aberforth Dumbledore in  Puddleglum in  Rincewind in the later  Crowley in  Most of the main characters (especially Frodo) in the later parts of  Usually he's anything but this trope, but in  In  The narrator of William Ernest Henley's "Invictus."

  The  In   In    Spike in the  Ryotaro Nogami, the protagonist of  In   A few   Versaemerge's  The Beatles' folk hero Rocky Raccoon, after he is shot by Dan, the guy who stole Lil, the girl of his fancy"

 "Until The End" by  Prominent concept in    Javik in  In  Shirou of   Himei from  One of the few good qualities  Ed Wuncler Sr. from 