Sometimes, you do what needs doing, but that doesn't mean you have to like it.the hero does something wrong, or ambiguous, or involving some sacrifice. He feels tainted by it, even if he had no choice in the matter. This is one way to humanize him and show that he is not just cold and heartless, thus making him more palatable to viewers. Sometimes the display of remorse might even avert a crossing of the moral event horizon.

There is no need for him to resolve to act otherwise, or wish that he had acted otherwise, to bring this trope into play; merely wishing that it had not been necessary is enough. He can wish that he was not praised as much for it, in the sub-trope be all my sins remembered.

He can even think that it is dirty business while he decides to do it, feeling stuck between a rock and a hard place. Often due to conflicting loyalty, he would feel it about either choice. When the hero does wish he had not done it, see my god, what have i done? and tears of remorse.

The better sort of knight templar or well-intentioned extremist may also feel it, though generally overlapping with a willful blindness to the fact that it did not, in fact, have to be done. A somewhat nastier version may claim that his suffering, having to do these things, is the important thing, and completely ignore his victims' sufferings.How wrong the act is depends on the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism, and the character. Those with incorruptible pure pureness may feel it for even ambiguous acts, while an anti-hero or anti-villain may reserve it for serious wrongdoing. Sometimes a character suffers curious qualms of conscience when he can't figure out why he thinks that act was dirty business.

May manifest as bad dreams, beard of sorrow, drowning my sorrows and the like, but does not need to be severe enough to reach that level.

what you are in the dark often proposes dirty business; the hero will reject it.

See also shoot the dog, which often provokes this in the better characters — and shows that the worse characters are worse by their lack of this.

This may cross over with amoral attorney.

