

Whereas the voiceless can talk and presumably does off-screen a lot, this character remains quiet most of the time, often out of shyness. However, around a select few people, he'll all of a sudden begin talking quite a bit. This character may in fact speak on-screen often (the voiceless will at most get a few lines onscreen, no matter how much they're stated to talk offscreen), if they happen to be a main character - a role that most voiceless characters don't do well in. That's because if the story's focus is on the character, it will naturally have a lot of scenes in which the character is with the select few he'll talk with.

The name comes from "elective mutism," which was the old term for this condition in real life. The name was changed to "selective mutism" due to the implication that the person was choosing not to talk, when in fact, the usual case was the person getting so terrified that their vocal cords froze up and they were literally unable to.

Compare the quiet one. Some examples may overlap between these two. Also compare silent bob, cannot talk to women, and elective unintelligible.

When adding to this page, please think carefully about whether your example fits. This trope is not merely someone who doesn't talk often or who doesn't talk except for one line. What is important here is that this character has a select few characters whom he will speak to. If you cannot say who those specific characters are within your example, it is not this trope. In  In the early parts of  One of the traditions binding the shrine maiden Touka in  While this trope isn't  Black Bolt of  Peter in  Charles Wallace was this as a child in  The young adult novel  Lewis from the book  Ben from the book  In the first book of the  In  In  In  A half-German boy living in Norway in WWI is violently beaten by schoolmates whose fathers were killed by a U-boat, in Jan Guillou's  In one episode of  The mostly silent Conundrum, from   In the play (and movie)  On the  The Bug in  