

In fictional works regarding either races that are unusually long or short lived, one pattern continually crops up- regardless of a character's real age, they will always have an emotional maturity matching their physical maturity. A one hundred year old elf who looks like they're in their thirties will always act like they're in their thirties. A child who has grown to physical maturity in a few weeks will be exactly as intelligent and oftentimes more so as their physical appearance would imply.

Where this trope can get really funky is when an interspecies romance is involved, particularly the mayfly-december romance variety. While people in real life generally cringe at the idea of a man in his 70s romancing women in their early 20s, this becomes immediately palatable in fiction as long as they physically appear to be the same age. Whether this says more about the motivation of squick in real life or fantasy writing in general is hard to say.

Naturally, this can be explained, to an extent, with bizarre alien biology and differing cultural customs. Not having known of any other intelligent life forms, we can't rightly say for certain how or if emotional maturity would progress with creatures that have a different lifetime than we do. In many cases, though, it still requires that younger members be an instant expert in order to learn as quickly as they do.

Very common in stories featuring intelligent robots, where robots only a few years of age will have grasped everything important about human society and interactions. They tend to get a pass, of course, for not really looking a specific age (well, most of the time).

See immortal immaturity for the sub-trope describing this phenomenon specifically as it relates to the attitude and emotional quotient of exceptionally long-lived characters. This trope is more focused on the comparative interpersonal interactions of multi-generational casts.

Contrast not growing up sucks, which inverts this by showing that a 50-year-old in a 10-year-old's body will, in fact, act like a 50-year-old. Compare age is relative. Compare acting your intellectual age, where intellectual maturity automatically equals emotional maturity.

 Sasha in   Averted in  Haku in  Wolfram from  Happened with  There was a clumsy attempt to invoke this trope when  In the shockingly  Inverted in the brief but chilling Twilight fanfic by Estora,  Basically,  This trope is referenced early in   Played with in  Appears in  Shows up in  Averted for laughs in  Liam Kincaid in  In  In the first episodes of   Malia Tate on   Adult Tarutaru from  Their racial Expy in  In  Tends to be the case for the characters who are dragons in human form or part dragon in the  Played oddly in  Used in the backstory to  This trope is  Jenny from  The original  