bob identifies themself with a social construct - a nationality, a religion, a subculture or whatever. As such Bob feels Alice is obligated to be with him, one way or another. Perhaps, given that they identify with the same construct, she will be a 'traitor' to 'their kind' if she does not date or marry within it. Or maybe he just feels that by belonging to the category he 'deserves' her more than someone that does not. The former self-justification often goes hand-in-hand with the latter. If Alice complies, she might even discover that Bob is willing to take his sense of entitlement further still.

There are several basic ways in which Bob can justify his sense of entitlement, all of which can just as easily apply to women as well:    The who they are type is usually more aggressive, and often the (implicit if not explicit) attitude of the native rival to the mighty whitey for the hand of the chief's daughter and/or nubile savage. Or any other male prone to accuse people of being a category traitor. The mindset can in some cases lead to honor-related abuse, especially when based on race/ethnicity/religion. This is a primary source of much of the unfortunate negative attitudes towards mixed couples, such as black man/white woman and Asian woman/white man pairs (see where da white women at? and mighty whitey and mellow yellow respectively).

The what they do type is usually more passive-aggressive, and one of the big reasons why being a self-defined "nice guy" might mean something entirely different from actually being good or even nice. (See also nice guys finish last; contrast dogged nice guy and all girls want bad boys, where the nice guy actually is nice, or at least expected to be seen as such according to the narrative.) However, this behavior is not limited to guys who consider themselves nice. A straight jerkass character might buy a woman a drink... without informing her that he considers her a very cheap hooker who he has now bought and is entitled to use.

The what they don't do type can easily come across as insane troll logic, but is actually quite reasonable from a certain point of view: the view of a guy who believes that regular male sexuality is mostly about sex is evil and i am horny, and that women owe him a debt of gratitude for not being a rapist like those other guys. (Of course, he might even be a rapist — making the whole thing even more ironic.) Or the view of a gal who learned to identify a bit too much with my girl is not a slut. In both cases, the character might come across as a sour prude.

Since this trope in general and the who they are type in particular is based on a traditional male gender role, it's mostly male. However, female examples can exist, even with the who they are type. For example, a western woman might invoke asian hooker stereotype when a white man dates an Asian woman. And of course, certain female characters might engage in the worst male stereotypes, especially when played for laughs.

See also sour prudes and sex is evil and i am horny, as well as lie back and think of england and my girl is not a slut. Polar opposite of ethical slut, where characters of any genders have fun together — and encourage potential partners to want to have sex with them, rather than trying to squeeze favors out of someone who just isn't interested.

Compare entitled bastard, it's all about me, and prince charming wannabe. Contrast sexual extortion, where the creep backs her demands with threats/"offers" rather than moralizing and guilt-tripping, and wants a prize for basic decency where Bob/Alice expects a reward for acting like a decent person.

Don't confuse with the trope nice guy, which is a guy who is genuinely, well, nice. There is the slang term "nice guy" (preferably with quotation marks, for sarcasm mode) for the kind of person who acts like this, but a true nice guy is about as far from this trope as possible. dogged nice guy, however, is closely related to this trope.

