Heroes have to deal with a lot of obstacles on their quest, or even everyday life. Not just from the big bad, but also fellow citizens. One of the most annoying is the ungrateful bastard, who won't thank the heroes over being rescued, or worse, complains! Of course, there are worse bad habits out there. Chief among them is acting like an Entitled Bastard.

Despite being a jerkass who bad mouths the heroes, obstructs their efforts or is an outright villain, they feel entitled to the heroes' unwavering loyalty and aid in a time of crisis. Once a threat comes around that can't be slimed out of by selling out an ally, he asks for and expects to be saved, possibly even before more deserving innocent bystanders! He will be completely shameless about this, even if he created the threat in the first place and perhaps even intended to use it against the heroes before it backfired on him.

The Entitled Bastards usually think it's all about them; they don't feel at all sheepish about asking the people whose lives they've made hell for help, and they see no reason to thank them for it afterwards. What happens to them depends on just how annoying or harmful they've been, and how nice or naughty the heroes are. If they've just been bad-mouthing a generally good samaritan of a hero, they'll be saved no matter what. If the hero has a sense of humor, they might leave them in a safe place... hanging by their underpants. On the other hand, outright murderous villains will likely die with a look of bewilderment as the anti-hero refuses to help... or even speeds their death along.Usually a source of dude, where's my respect?, and often a case of villain ball.

Not to be confused with a heroic bastard who gains a seat in the peerage of a kingdom. Even though he's an "entitled bastard" in the literal sense of the term, he's not necessarily an example of this trope (although he can be).

be careful adding real life examples to this. It's already sad enough that this is truth in television.

