

In some stories, it's not enough for the hero and villain to be long lost brothers, separated at birth. It's not enough for the protagonist to find out that the man he has chased down with intense hatred is also the man who conceived him, and thus they are linked by fate. Every main character is secretly related, and everyone they have even incidental contact with is a far removed cousin or uncle. If nothing else, the dragon is secretly the lancer's adoptive father, or the white magician girl went to the same monastery as the dread summoner who now threatens all of existence. For one reason or another, everyone of even marginal importance to the story secretly has some kind of connection to each other, to be revealed only at the moment of greatest dramatic impact (because the writers hadn't thought of it until just now). In particularly silly cases, you can gauge a character's rising importance in the story by the fact that they are suddenly revealed to have been related to someone else in the plot all along.

Very common in soap operas, which hinge on dramatic twists. You can't really blame them for eventually running out of reasonable ones and going back to the family well. Also common in particularly mind screwy and plot-heavy video games and long-running dramatic television series. Modern incarnations are often a deconstruction, but not always. The presence of (fertile) immortals can easily lead to this, especially if the immortality is itself heritable.

Often truth in television when dealing with a feudal society. Those stories tend to revolve around royalty and nobility, who were intermarried so heavily that it's entirely plausible for every scheming duke and brave baron to be someone's uncle or cousin. This is possibly where the trope originates. Also true for humanity in general: recent studies indicate that the most recent common ancestor of all humans alive today may have lived as recently as three or four thousand years ago, while in most groups where immigration isn't the primary method of population growth, it is inevitable that this has happened much more recently. The way populations work, someone ends up either leaving a lot of descendants, or the family line dies out within a few generations. So if a person living now can trace their ancestry back to, say, Charlemagne, that means inevitably hundreds of thousands, and probably millions, of other people living today can do the same thing, which means they are all distant cousins. It is assumed some 30% of all Central Europeans descend from Charlemagne in one way or another.

This is not to say Charlemagne was an immense fornicator. He had only ten legitimate and illegitimate children. But they all survived to adult age, married and procreated. Usually a pedigree of a foreparent either collapses within six generations, or surviving that, his or her genes will spread and multiply immensely, like those of Charlemagne.

Compare you all share my story and tangled family tree.

Subtrope of one degree of separation. For the non-familial version, see everyone went to school together.

