In most cases, whenever a high-profile band becomes well known, most casual fans can only identify one particular band member by name. Usually it's the lead singer. Sure, there are a few other people playing the drums, guitar and bass, but who cares about them? They're just background noise, so they don't get much of the publicity, if any at all. One possible explanation for this involves the rise of the music video. For the most part, when a band makes a music video, the camera tends to focus on the person singing, thereby giving a lead singer much more camera time than the rest of the band.

This is especially prevalent in bands that are named for one or more of the founding members (Santana, Gladys Knight and the Pips), bands with rotating casts aside from one or two consistent members, or bands with one female member (even in the rare case where she doesn't sing lead, she'll at least be the other Face Of The Band simply by virtue of being the chick). It's also rather fascinating just how often this tends to be a rare human-specific case of what measure is a non-cute?. (Not really surprising, but fascinating.)

Depending on the genre, the person linked to the band will inevitably go solo, and the rest of the band will often fade into obscurity afterwards.

The two-person version of this trope, and also its opposite (where one band member is much more forgettable than the others) is garfunkel. Taken to its logical extreme, becomes i am not shazam. See also i am the band and spotlight-stealing title. When a group tries to carry on after losing its most prominent member(s), the result is the band minus the face. Can occur even on a long runner line up. Not to be confused with the face but the roles can overlap if the one member everyone knows is also the most social. Quite common if the band is named after the guy.

Also, no points are given out to tropers for knowing the names of all the band members who are NOT the Face Of The Band, so don't list them. This trope refers to the general public, of course you can probably name all the members of your favorite band, but casual fans usually don't. This is not a game of "hahaha, i can name all the members of the moody blues and you can't, so i'm superior!" So don't add that stuff in, please.

 The Kelloggs "Special K" breakfast food is aimed at women who want to stay healthy, regular and slim. The adverts tend to use groups of happy, shapely, unconstipated-looking women. Swimming costumes, post-bath towels or skimpy summer clothes feature a lot, just to make the point that Special K keeps you slim. Most of the women in the adverts wear white or dull neutral grey. But  In  Lampshaded in Cameron Crowe's  Somewhat parodied by Derek Smalls of  As was Jimmy Nail's character Les in  This forms a great deal of the plot of  Satisfaction/The Girls of Summer...The fictional band consisted of "star" Justine Bateman, a then-unknown Julia Roberts ("the slut") and...um....

 Dewey Finn initially is this for the  Deconstructed in  Also deconstructed in the Korean horror film  Figures heavily in "The Band's Tale" from the   One episode of  In an episode of  Face it, there's a lot of  Invoked in   In-universe example: in  The third case of  The Heavy from  As far as one's concerned,  In  This happens outside the music industry. Bet you can't name more than two men who walked on the moon.

  In a non-music example,  In the podcast world,  Thanks to his  Apparently a lot of people believed that the entire Apple Corporation consisted of Steve Jobs putting together laptops and iPods in his garage. When people began hearing that Jobs was in bad health, Apple's stock took a dive.

  Speaking of game companies, Gabe Newell is seen as this to  Back to music: Frank Klepacki for the  The very nature of the game industry (and the film industry, too, come to think of it) promotes "faces" rather than "bands." You have a few big-name developers/directors who have either charisma or vision, and they lead hundreds of more or less faceless workers in the creation of their product. How many people are going to remember anyone besides the central creative force behind the whole thing?

 For Hallam FM it's Big John, from Big John@Breakfast, and Metro-Radio it's their Frasier Crane equivalent, Alan Robson.

