

So the main character is about to get the audition she's been waiting for. Whether she's a hopeful dancer looking for a coveted spot in that high-class ballet studio, an upstart football player trying out for a spot on the big team, or a model-wannabe dreaming of strutting her stuff on the runway, the audience knows that this character has been training for her entire life to get up to this point. The audience hasn't actually seen much of that journey, since we're only ten minutes into the story, but it's been clearly emphasized just how much is riding on this one moment.

Finally her turn is up. She goes out there and gives it her all, holding nothing back. The judges deliberate while the protagonist waits with bated breath, until finally the results are in. An announcer reads off the list of those making it through to the next round, and... her name is not on it. Her hopes and dreams have been brutally shattered.

If it ended there, this would be a short and rather depressing story. Fortunately, it's not quite over yet. While many lesser characters would take this failure as a sign to give up and seek out a more mundane career, this protagonist will use the experience as motivation to redouble her efforts. She will learn from her mistakes, and continue striving until her dreams come true.

A failed audition plot is in play when a character gets their big break and fails, but continues trying nonetheless. While they may need to take a break for a good old fashioned angst session, they eventually gather the will to pursue their dream once more. This can also apply to other situations in which a character competes for a spot in their institution of choice: characters failing their college entrance exams for a prestigious school being a prime example. What's important is that their initial failure does not ultimately stop them from trying again.

Their initial failure need not be the sole motivating force. Perhaps they're given a poignant reminder of what they were fighting for in the first place, or a kindly old master gives them a rousing speech. Regardless, the character finds a reason to commit to training like no one has ever trained before. The inclusion of a training montage is almost a certainty.

heroic resolve is common among characters in a failed audition plot, even if it takes them a little while to find it. A character who immediately jumps back on the horse despite the odds may be a determinator. If the character never achieves their dream in the end, they may discover that it was all about the journey after all.

Contrast hopeless auditionees, who never had a chance in the first place.

