

We've all known a guy like this, you know the guy who claims his great to the Nth grandfather did something famous which via fridge logic carries over to him? This is dedicated to any character who invokes a Famous Ancestor to help characterize himself, or is characterized by his famous ancestor despite his own traits. Expect this as the source of a secret legacy or superpowerful genetics in a family line and expect a poor kid being held up to the ancestors standard.

Commons subversions occur where the character has a Famous Ancestor, but the powers or prowess eludes them and their humiliation is played for laughs. Being played more seriously may it may have quite an overlap with inadequate inheritor.

This is a common way for writers to grant characters powers or abilities of the famous ancestor. Bonus points if the character claims to be a direct descendant in a case that history clearly contradicts and causes fridge logic. heroic lineage is a subtrope, where the thing the ancestor in question is famous for was an act or pattern of heroism.

Note that while it might seem impressive to claim certain historical figures as your ancestor, anyone who lived more than a few hundred years ago and had more than a few children could very well have millions of living descendants right now. See the entries from real life below. On the gripping hand though, while simple descendants of important historical figures may be common, "direct male line descendants" — presumably, from firstborn son to firstborn son — probably actually would be unique.

Contrast amazingly embarrassing parents.

 Arsene Lupin III of  Einhart Stratos of  In  Masahiro in  In Universe example from the wonderful world of  In  In  The Mandarin in   In    Some comics state that  In    In the  Very common in the    In  In the extremely forgettable 1989 DTV skiffy movie  In  According to  In  All the magicians in the   Vimes from    It turns out in  Played for humor in  In the short story  The Bond family's coat of Arms  Sun Jian from    In the first book of the  The protagonist of J.C. Hutchins' novel  In Dune, it is revealed that Paul Atredies is descended from Agamemnon. This is part of the trope that good people are descended from good people and bad people from bad people.

 Ax had this a lot in  In  Octavian happily uses this on  Spock of  On  In an episode of  Rose, on  Played twice in  Every member of the teams of  On  On  In    Classic radio-serial(and later comic book, movie and TV) hero  One of the major enemies of  The  Chrom, Lucina, Lissa, and Emmeryn of  Fred Bonaparte, direct descendant of Napoleon in  Susano of  Remilia Scarlet of the   In  The sole claim to fame of the protagonist of the original  In the  Nathan Drake of   In  Subverted in "Ayla and the Late Trevor James Goodkind", the intro novel for Phase in the  Lenneth Archimedes from  Classically  Staci from  Played for laughs in   There is a scientist fellow who claims that 0.5% of the world's males have a genetic lineage traceable to  Several US presidents, including   Tom Hanks is a relative of Abe Lincoln by way of Abe's mother, Nancy Hanks Lincoln. Referenced in  And  The Queen of England and the rest of the current British royal family is probably descended from the Prophet Mohammed (via Arab kings of Spain).

 Julius Caesar claimed descent from the Greek mythological hero Aeneas. Or more accurately, Roman poet Vergil claimed Caesar was descended from Aeneas. Aeneas is also the son of Venus.

  Marjane Satrapi, author of    It was common during the Middle Ages for English kings to claim to be descended from 