When it comes to children's media and the like, it seems that whenever there's a gang of lead characters there's always one person that's fatter than the rest of the cast.

This person is usually male, and he or she'll almost always be the butt monkey/chew toy/plucky comic relief - often, though not always, through their big eater and/or gasshole tendencies.

Keep in mind that just because a character is both fat and a butt monkey, that does not mean they apply for this trope. butt monkeys can be played straight or for sympathy, in which case they are not seen as acceptable targets, and so do not qualify.

Additionally, their fatness and their status as a plucky comic relief or butt monkey must be related in some way. For example, a butt monkey who is picked on because he is fat would qualify (if played for laughs), but a butt monkey who is picked on for some unrelated reason (like for being a nerd) without consideration for his weight would not.

These are usually found in comedies, often children's media and sitcoms.

Closely related to fat girl. A sister trope to fat idiot. You'll often find these kids gobbling up the ammo of a food fight. Can sometimes be obsessed with food. If the series takes place in school, expect them to be the most frequent target of the bully. See also big fun.

 Choji from  The police officer ("De Champetter") in the Flemish comic strip "De Lustige Kapoentjes" is morbidly obese and often tricked by either the children protagonists ("De Lustige Kapoentjes") or the teenage delinquent (Flurk). Partly subverted though, since he does get his comeuppance regularly.

 The      The first child to find his golden ticket in the  The premise of the movie  Horace from  Pumbaa from   A stock character in  Fat Bastard from the  Chunk from  Augustus Gloop from   Chet Morton from  Embraced at first by Zane in    Norm on     In      Barry Wheeler from  Big the Cat from  The King of Town from  George Pie from    Owen from  Harold from  Shirley in  Mikey from  Harold from   Hoppopotamus from 