In any work featuring both angels and demons, most of the time the angel will be female (or at least more feminine or androgynous) and the demon will be male (or at least more masculine).

The primary reason for this is that angels are supposedly beautiful, refined, merciful and noble creatures, while demons (even if they are being portrayed as affably evil) are ugly, rude, crude, callous and mean. traditionally, the former traits are considered feminine while the latter traits are considered masculine. All of this ignores the androgynous and sexless nature of angels, and that demons and angels were originally the same.

Often, even when an angel is portrayed as being male, he will still be played by a woman. aversions generally seem to occur when heaven is represented as some kind of bureaucracy. When played for laughs, the relationship between the angels and demons will be portrayed as a friendly rivalry that inevitably leads to se...um...romance.

In the rare cases where the genders are inverted, the angel will be indeed more masculine than the usual standard, but he will mostly be here to highlight that good is not nice and will often be cold and unemotional. The demoness, on the other hand, will mostly be a sexaholic, at best a manipulative bitch if non-sexualized, but she will seldom be portrayed as physically dangerous as her male counterpart. And don't expect any romance between them if they ever happen to be on "friendly" terms because my girl is not a slut.

Inversions also often occur with occult motifs, as light is traditionally masculine and darkness traditionally feminine.

Naturally, this trope often carries the unfortunate implication that women are good and men are evil. Additionally, it could be said that wish fulfillment may come into play as well when there's romance involved, i.e., the classical plot of a caring and merciful woman who redeems an evil man with love. And since the reverse doesn't exist in fiction, the message is clearly that a good man would never bother with redeeming an evil woman, or give her any time of the day to begin with. Or, arguably, this is where all men are perverts meets with if she ain't broke, don't fix her.

Notice evil sounds deep.

Couple this trope with all men are perverts and you get horny devils. Applicable to gender inversions as well, as said above. If people ship the two, that's angel/devil shipping.

A subtrope of our angels are different, our demons are different.

