The act of taking a single (often minor) action or trait of a character within a work and exaggerating it more and more over time until it completely consumes the character. Most always, the trait/action becomes completely outlandish and it becomes their defining characteristic. Sitcoms and Sitcom characters are particularly susceptible to this, as are peripheral characters in shows with long runs.

The trope is named for one of the examples in The Simpsons, Ned Flanders, who was originally just a considerate neighbor and attentive father, with his devout nature simply being that he willingly attended and paid attention in church, all to make him a contrast to homer, before becoming obsessively religious to the point of stupidity.

Note that the key to this trope is in how the process is a gradual thing, the character starts relatively normal then gains a few quirks, the quirks become more prominent and then gradually become the character. If it is simply about how the character is different early on before the writers know what to do with them, that is characterization marches on. flanderization doesn't have to be a bad thing - sometimes it can be used to expand on a background character's personality when they are brought to the foreground, or make an otherwise bland character stand out more.

When Flanderization occurs as the result of adaptation from one medium to another (manga to anime, for example), it's character exaggeration and frequently a sign of adaptation decay. May sometimes be related to lost in imitation.

See also never live it down for when the character is more associated with some action or event than the character actually changing, and unintentionally sympathetic, when realistic quirks are mishandled by the writers. Compare/contrast early installment weirdness (as it applies to characters), with early depictions of a character being different from later ones simply because the producers hadn't figured out what role they should play in the story.

Here's a list of cases of Flanderization:

 A character does dumb things, but manages to get gradually dumber as time goes by.

 A character is only slightly dumb, and is capable of doing what he/she needs to, but later becomes unable to perform even the most simple tasks like reading.

 The character's stupidity is only demonstrated by him/her saying funny phrases, but later  Insanity is mistaken for stupidity, and a  A character is not dumb, just  A character is intelligent, but in realistic levels, later he/she becomes extremely intelligent, being comparable to many famous scientists, or even exaggerated to the point of being able to build wondrous gadgets at his house.

 Insanity is mistaken for brilliance, and a  A greedy character has a kind side and often chooses what is more important instead of riches, but later, becomes even more greedy to the point that he even sacrifices friends and family just for a few more pennies.

 A  Alternately, they become kind to a fault and evolve into an  A competent villain that came close to defeating the hero, somehow becomes more and more incompetent and  A villain sure is evil, but has a clear goal and does evil acts only to achieve it, but later, becomes much more evil and starts  A realistic villain, similar to real world criminals or dictators (Even with supernatural elements), starts  A  A character is kind of annoying but only infuriates those who are  The creators find out that a character  The creators discover a character is not well liked by the fans, and thus decides to hurt and humiliate the character in increasingly horrifying ways, despite the fact that the character had really done nothing wrong in recent episodes.

 A character that is intelligent and sometimes accidentally patronizes or confuses laymen, later becomes an  A character has a  Conversely, if there is a food or something else that the character doesn't like, their distaste for it will increase over time, and the character will become more and more of a magnet for improbable situations in which the disliked thing cannot be avoided.

 A character is kind of an activist and organizes protests when something really bad is going on, but later,  A character is  A character gets in distress sometimes, but has many other uses in the plot, later, his/her only usefulness is getting in danger to be rescued.

     