When it comes to forgiving one another, it can be difficult at times. Some of your good-hearted people like the nice guy, all-loving hero, and the wide-eyed idealist would be always willing to let bygones be bygones, but as for the anti-hero, knight templar, and the jerkass, not so much. Then, there are some people who actually can (or will) forgive and can still give others the cold shoulder, which is this trope.

In short, this is more of a cynical cousin of easily forgiven. Instead of following the adage "forgive and forget", these type of characters take the "forgive" part only. No matter how forgiving the character is, he still feels genuinely hurt by the transgressor's actions or words, which explains the harsh attitude. Maybe the character is still distrustful towards him and believes that the transgressor might do the same thing all over again; then again, this reason may be justified. Perhaps the person has a bit of a short temper and takes the little things too seriously (like having his foot being accidentally stepped on), which makes it impossible to forgive the other completely. When it comes to this trope, just because people forgive doesn't necessarily mean they will move on.

Usually, other variants would show that one character will come to sincerely apologize to the other and they will still call them out of their wrongs with responses such as "you've hurt my feelings" or "you should be sorry". They may hear that they are trying to change their ways, but is still not good enough to make them completely happy again. These kind of forgivers would always focus on the bad qualities of others, and if they already forgiven them, they may give out warnings of threats or other ultimatums to them should the action be repeated. As far as forgiving others and not forgetting their act goes, this is seen as a character still finding it difficult to truly move on, just a character having bad trust issues, or just a character being an insufferable jerk.

It's worth noting that this trope isn't always found on the cynical side of the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism. To put this trope positively, forgiving others doesn't mean tolerating what the other has done. One, It can be a process to heal all negative emotions that the victimizer has caused, and that the victimizer will take responsibility of never repeating his mistakes. Then again, just because the person has forgiven the other doesn't mean they have to be friends with them. Even so, the wronged person would still be satisfied to see him receive his laser-guided karma for good measure.

the atoner may not care if the forgiver is still not going easy on him, since the only thing that matters to him is that he is pardoned for his wrongs. If he does care for his approval again, though, then he will work hard to make that person happy with him again, or at least improve himself morally. If the forgiver does indeed become happy, it can be heartwarming moment. If not, then this can make a rather complicated story, and it may lead to the implication that the character has never really forgiven them at all.

Pretty much truth in television, but examples are unnecessary. Compare flippant forgiveness (the sarcastic variant), my fist forgives you, and restrained revenge (both tropes are about getting even with the wrongdoer while forgiving him, usually physically). Contrast rejected apology, reformed, but rejected, and heel face door slam which demonstrate that the character is NOT forgiven at all no matter how sincere he is in his apology and turning his life around.

