A character who is so popular and impactful that many other characters created afterwards are heavily inspired by it. They share even more than its character archetypes, they are its expies basically the same old character recycled, with some minor changes, to make it fit into the new setting. The original one gives inspiration not just for their basic characterization tropes, but for parts of their relationship dynamics, personality, and appearance.

While too many authors using the same obvious expies could be considered a worrying trend in terms of originality, it isn't an inherently bad thing. As a longer time passes, creators might be more and more likely to make bigger changes to the character, eventually growing it into a whole new character archetype trope on its own. In other cases, it's possible that the resulting characters are too different even for that: Talented writers can explore certain aspects of a character with an expy, and other aspects with another expy, in a way, that if you would compare the two expies, they wouldn't even appear that similar to each other. While it's possible that a Fountain of Expies also serves as a trope codifier for the character's most fundamental tropes, other times the shared similarities are more vague.

In the following "subtropes" list, only add trope pages whose descriptions are explicitly based on the idea of collecting characters that are based on a first one. There are other tropes that were more indirectly started or codified by certain characters, but these should only be referenced in the second, character-based listing.

A subcase of follow the leader.

Though Fountain of Expies is not a trope, it does have sub tropes. These are:



                            Compare the ahnold (spoofing any action star, including arnold schwarzenegger), mascot with attitude (trying to make a distinct character, but still following sonic the hedgehog), tuxedo and martini (the basic attire of james bond).

See also, whole plot reference when it is the plot, not the character, that is being referenced.

