In popular culture, usually comedy, Frenchmen are often acceptable targets. They will be portrayed as villains, antagonists or someone who is just plain mean, arrogant, snobbish, bad tempered, foul mouthed or rude. Often he will talk and laugh triumphantly in a maurice chevalier accent, after insulting foreigners.

These are the most common situations in which this character turns up:

1) Characters visit France or meet a Frenchman. They'll ask him a simple direction or question, but the French Jerk refuses to answer, starts insulting or threatening them and/or feels they are beneath him.

2) french cuisine is haughty: Characters visit a French restaurant, where the cook and/or the waiter are all arrogant, badly tempered and dirty snobs who refuse to give their clients what they want or interpret everything they say as a complaint. If they deliver the meals the food will always be filthy, disgusting or cold.

3) Characters meet a rich upper-class twit, who happens to speak gratuitous french in order to appear très chic and looks down upon the others because they are out of his noble league. A lot of comedy will be built around the fact that he or she doesn't understand or care for the common people and is unable to speak the language of the protagonists correctly. To top it all off he/she will wear or carry a lorgnette, a monocle or a small handkerchief, to emphasize his/her snobbishness. In the end he or she will always be humiliated or put in her place. This stock character can be found in a lot of countries who were conquered/colonized by the French or dominated by a French elite in the past, such as Belgium.

4) Characters meet an arrogant Frenchman full of misplaced nationalism, either in their country or in France. He acts as the rival to the hero and will start a discussion about whose country is better, either in dialogue or through some sort of competition, such as a sport tournament. After the conflict is resolved, however, he often will have grown to love the country of the hero and isn't as arrogant about himself or his country as he was before. This follows after he is defeated or after any interaction between them that resolves the conflict.

5) In the USA in particular the French jerk will be portrayed as an ungrateful coward, whom the brave Americans saved in World War One and Two, but who has no respect for Americans in modern times. This is a somewhat one-sided caricature, because the French have in the past battled German invaders more than once (Franco-Prussian War (1871), for instance) and during their so-called unheroic retreat in World War Two the French only surrendered because the Nazis had already surrounded Paris and threatened to blow the city up. The French resistance did a lot during both World Wars to sabotage the Nazis' plans, when the USA was still remaining neutral during both conflicts. This is not a certain conflict that took place during the late 18th century, in which a resistance movement only managed to overcome their military occupiers with the help of another foreign power, who not only supplied and financed their operations, but also became essential in securing a decisive, final outcome to the conflict.

This is more of a characterization trope, unlike, say, eagle land or cheese-eating surrender monkeys. Compare stuffy brit.

