

Hollywood tends to lack subtlety. This isn't particularly surprising. As such, your usual hollywood nerd is completely cut off from the more mundane concerns of the average person. More specifically, he doesn't like sports. At all.

On Super Bowl Sunday he curls up with The Confessions of St. Augustine. During March Madness he passes his time at Shakespeare in the Park performances. He thinks college football is an abomination that completely ruins the academic system. He scoffs at sports.

Except... baseball.

Our nerd (or "seamhead", as he may proudly label himself) adores America's pastime. He can tell you who led the Federal League in on-base percentage in 1915 (Benny Kauff). He can quote Bob Gibson's 1968 ERA (1.12). He can name the entire starting lineup of the 1995 Atlanta Braves team that won the World Series. This nerd likely has a massive baseball card collection and surrounds himself with books on the game.

If the writers aren't particularly subtle, the nerd will be primarily obsessed with statistics and have no real passion for the game itself. A more committed nerd, however, will frequently have a game on the television and will speak eloquently about the sport's beauty to his friends.

Basically, geniuses love baseball. This is truth in television. just ask baseball fans.

The nature of the game lends itself to easily analyzable statistics (a baseball game is basically a series of discrete, independent events, as opposed to the inter-connected ebb and flow of many other sports), while advances in computing power have made those stats even easier to break down and the rise of the Internet has made them easy to acquire, often at no cost. Even before the rise of sabermetrics, or the analysis of baseball statistics, the game was popular among poets, novelists, and other literary and intellectual types due to its leisurely pace, rich history, and pastoral, agrarian mythos.

If the writer himself isn't that much into baseball, this will be guaranteed to be a case of gretzky has the ball.

In England, Australia, and many other former British colonies, cricket performs the same function. Uncoincidentally, a major part of the original inspiration for the rules of baseball was cricket.

A subtrope of pastimes prove personality. No relation to the Internet trivia game of the same name. Or to nerds playing board games.

