affably evil is when a villain is polite, friendly and genuinely kind, even while plotting evil. Good Is Not Nice is the inverse of that: a character who is morally slanted toward the good side but is rude, unfriendly, and mean.

He never kills anyone if he can help it, nor will he allow people to come to any sort of harm by ignoring them. He's always willing to go out of his way to save the town and complete strangers. When the call comes, he will answer it, usually with very little protest. He will often help people in need with little promise of reward. In almost every way, he acts like an ideal hero.

Except that he's asocial and sometimes downright abusive toward most people he meets. He may refuse to explain anything. He may actively rebuke people who express gratitude, friendship, and love as well as offers of support if he's got a problem.There are a few reasons a person may act like this: He may  He  He's  He may want to be a   He or she might wish to be nice but lives so far outside normal human experience that she or he has no idea how to go about it; similarly, the hero might be autistic, or a non-human alien.

 Here are related tropes which are demonstrations as to how the good character isn't as nice as he appears to be:                                    Note that when handled well, this can create an interesting, complex character. When done poorly, you can end up with serious moral dissonance, a designated hero and/or even an unintentionally unsympathetic character.

Compare noble demon, who will likely fall into this if not too morally ambiguous. Often a knight in sour armor, mr. vice guy, jerk with a heart of gold, jerkass woobie, or sometimes just a jerkass who does good things. The term anti-hero is sometimes used to cover this trope. Sister trope to creepy good. The naïve newcomer may be surprised to learn he isn't the idealized hero everyone thinks he is. This type of character will turn out to be a hero with bad publicity.

Why Light powers can be the holy hand grenade even when light is good.

Contrast affably evil and good is not dumb. If a character acts like this exclusively towards their enemies, you've got a case of good is not soft.

lawful good versions of this trope may be strict, humorless and serious. In other cases, they will put much emphasis on "Lawful" more than "Good". Very common personality flaw for the paladin.

See also hidden depths. Also see the knight templar, who goes beyond merely not being "nice" into darker territory.

