

So you're working on a book, and you like your hero character so far, but he's just too... clean. How can you dirty him up a bit so that he's more interesting? You need to add some character flaws. Careful, though. The right flaws will make your character more accessible to your audience and bring him to life, but the wrong flaws will make your audience despise him no matter what heroic acts he accomplishes. There are good flaws, and there are bad flaws.

A list of currently acceptable "good" flaws includes:      Being  Being a  "Sticking to your guns" even when the odds seem stacked against you (Which some may argue isn't even a flaw at all, except when it results in       Being a  A       While a list of flaws that are currently "bad" includes: Sexism

            A character who's addicted to alcohol is a helpless victim of a substance to which he is addicted. A character who chain-smokes is a rube who doesn't understand the dangers of smoking and ought to die of lung cancer for his foolishness (although, occasionally there are sympathetic smokers). The difference between drinking and smoking in this regard is that drinking is not addictive for the majority of people and provides a significant high, while smoking is addictive for everyone and its high, if any, is very weak. Drinking is therefore seen as the more rational action, although of course off limits for those who get addicted.

A character who has sex freely isn't always seen as flawed at all (and provides interesting plot opportunities...) while a genuinely racist or homophobic character portrayed in any kind of positive light whatsoever is a rarity these days. (A number of comedians will pretend racist/homophobic viewpoints for laughs, but also insist that they're only kidding. See, however, licensed sexist.)

Of course, 60 years ago some of the entries on these lists might have been inverted. And in fact, this is a cyclical trope, constantly changing as artists try to push the envelope and skirt the fine line of transgressive but not reprehensible. Who knows what will be seen as acceptable or not acceptable in another 60 years.

One major exception to this trope is this: A character who has a "bad" flaw is allowed to be the hero if the experiences of their journey inspire them to cast off this flaw. If your prejudiced hero learns about other ethnic groups over the course of his journey and, at the end of the book, decides that he can now accept people of different ethnic groups as equal to himself; well, he was an egalitarian all along, just waiting for the right experience to let him grow, wasn't he? (Less idealistic works might have the hero retain his bad habits, but still strive to do the right thing in spite of himself.)

Related to once acceptable targets.

See also: good smoking, evil smoking for an in-depth discussion of tobacco as a signifier of morality.

Feel free to add more examples to the current list, but try to keep it general and widely applicable. Also, feel free to add lists of examples pertaining to other cultures and time periods. Also feel free to add to the list of examples below, but keep in mind that this sort of thing is often played with and changes over time, so there are going to be very few straight examples.

Note: Please try to keep fantastic racism to a minimum unless it is very clearly supposed to be a direct analogue to real-life bigotry. The hatred of Orcs and the hatred of human ethnic minorities carry very different connotations in media (for some reason).

   On the "reverse snobbery" thread, you also see this a lot in high school movies. If the popular or cool kids play a prank on the unpopular/uncool kids, it's wrong and malicious. If unpopular/uncool kids play a prank on the popular/cool kids, it's a funny comeuppance.

   Ray Levoi, the FBI-agent protagonist of  Sam Vimes from the  William Laurence from the  Haymitch from    For sympathetic characters with regular snobbery, you have  Johnathan Quayle Higgins on   Even more intractable is the tendency to attempt to psychologically scan a historical subject to see if he ( Most criminals and other people with an "evil" reputation will have a good side to them. For instance, some psychopaths who absolutely feel no remorse towards torturing, raping and killing human beings will feel apalled whenever someone hurts an animal.

 Jonathan Ingram in  Eric Cartman from  The entire list in the article description is practically a laundry list for  