This character is much like a duck: they're awkward and clumsy on land, but put them in the water or in the air? Poetry in motion.

There's a lot of variation in this trope. Usually the character is the klutz (or at least notably awkward) on land, but if given a chance they're very Graceful In Their Element. The variation comes in on what that more natural element might be. On the water they could be a champion swimmer, skier or sailor. Ice-wise they could be an angelic skater. In the air they might be an ace pilot. If machines are involved they'll be a badass driver with improbable piloting skills, and be able to turn a humongous mecha into an impossibly graceful giant. If fighting, dancing or both are involved, they may be a consummate dance battler.

This hidden depth is used either for humor or to add a level of dichotomy to a character. It can make them seem a bit otherworldly; they're helpless on land, but they're so graceful outside of it that it seems like they don't really belong in this world. This can be further reinforced if the awkwardness is due to a physical disability, so it becomes a case where putting someone in a new medium where they're on a level playing field with everyone else lets them surpass their limitations.To a certain extent this is truth in television. Moving in a different medium like asphalt, ice and zero-g vacuum requires an entirely new skill set that doesn't completely map out with bipedal terrestrial locomotion. While being naturally graceful and aware of kinesthetics makes learning skating or piloting easier, it's by no means a free pass.

sister trope to eloquent in my native tongue.

 In  Aqua, a filler character in  Akira Renbokoji in  In the  May apply to Awkwardman of the  A milder example exists with Namor, the  Also applies to Spider-Man, comparatively. On open ground, he can manage a decent athletic run, or awkward but effective long jumps... but give him tall things to swing from and bounce off of and his entire mode of locomotion completely changes, and it becomes blatantly clear why people call him 'amazing', 'spectacular', and 'web-slinger'.

 Ehmte-Ciss-Ronn in  In  Sid the sloth in   Orville the albatross in  The reason the stereotypically unhurried turtle sidekick in  The very clumsy Alfredo Linguini in  Jar Jar Binks from  Philip, the protagonist of the novel  Victor Krum in  In the  Cho-Hag, the Algarian Chief of the Clan-Chiefs in the  Vicar Allayn Maigwair, Captain General of    In  In  Kine the Fish in   Joker from  Rena Hirose from  Cherrim in  Sumia in   In  In  Quite a few animals that are highly adapted for life in the water, the air or the trees are often very clumsy when on solid ground, even if they're closely related to terrestrial kin:

 The fastest human runner alive can reach a top speed of just under 28 mph. The fastest human swimmer can reach 6 mph in the water. In contrast, a dolphin can swim at 25 mph. Its movement speed on land is considerably less than 6 mph.

