Greed, or avarice, is the desire for large amounts of money and material possessions. While simply attempting to earn more money to make oneself better off is no big deal, greed applies when one attempts to garner ever greater amounts of possessions and money simply for the sake of having more than everyone else.

The thing about Greed is that it's never satisfied - as soon as the thing sought after is obtained, the obtainer starts craving more, and more, and more, ad infinitum. It's an addiction.

Greed is the main motivation of the corrupt corporate executive. It is also a fatal flaw of the miser advisor and commonly of a mr. vice guy; in the cases of these characters, they usually learn a valuable lesson at some point about what's really important. The gold digger is motivated by Greed — as is, often enough, the black widow. A character defined by Greed often has a money fetish. This trope can be the reason behind characters who are only in it for the money.

Greedy villains often try to bribe the hero, a tactic in which they have great confidence. After all, justice and even revenge aren't shiny, and don't get a very good exchange rate. When the hero turns down the briefcase full of money, it can be a great shock. Obviously, bribes work great on them.

Villains — and heroes — seemingly afflicted by Greed can be humanized by demonstrating that it is not the money they are after; they need it to buy something of actual value. At the same time, their Greed may threaten to transform their goal into a tragic dream. Villains may also want it not for itself but for equally villainous reasons — to effect revenge, to live the slothful life of the idle rich — which changes the motivation without making it less evil.

May lead to death by materialism. gold fever is a subtrope. Often goes hand in hand with gluttony. Compare lust, which is desire for abstract concepts and feelings as opposed to material possessions. If a greedy character is featured in a musical, expect a money song.

For the less sophisticated, there's giant food. Compare love hungry.

For the classic silent film on the subject, see Greed. For the Chuck Woolery game show, see Greed.

