On the one hand, you have the atoner, a person who committed a terrible deed and after a heel-face turn, resolves to spend his/her entire life trying to make up for it. On the other hand, you have the person who apologizes a lot, someone who apologizes out of habit, even if they know whatever happened was not their fault.

Now, enter Guilt Complex, the bastard child of those two tropes.

A person with a Guilt Complex is someone who routinely puts blame on his/her own shoulders. It differs from the atoner in that whatever happened cannot possibly be their fault, and their justification for blaming themselves is usually a stretch, sometimes taken to ridiculous levels. It differs from the  and from apologizes a lot in that it's not just a verbal tic or a way of expressing sympathy for someone else, they truly believe if they had done something different, whatever negative situation they were in would not have ever happened. And they feel this way all the time, in all situations, to the point where it basically becomes one of their main character traits. Often takes the form of "I should have..." or "If I hadn't..."

A guilt complex can be born from many different personalities:

  A  Characters with lingering, unresolved guilt stemming from  It can also be a type of Expect the true companions to initially try and make this person see how they are not at fault, until it happens again, and again, and again, and again, and in the end induces much eye-rolling, resignation, or even lampshade hanging from other characters.

If a character indulges in this a little too much, it's not uncommon for a supporting character to snap them out of it by accusing them of arrogance for the attitude. Expect to see something along the lines of "you think you're the only one [responsible for/saddened by/involved in] this?!"

Often instrumental to the heroic bsod. See also it's all my fault. Contrast with never my fault, the inversion of this trope.

Please note: When you add examples, try to give as much detail as possible. Remember this trope is about a behavioral pattern.

