One thing you can count on in virtually any genre of fiction is that the heroes will have an uncanny sense of intuition, often bordering on being psychic. If a main character says something and justifies it as being a hunch, gut feeling, or an "I just know", then about 90% of the time he will turn out to be right. There are certain exceptions such as if a character says about another "I got a sudden feeling we might not see each other again", then the chances are only about 50-50 of the main character being right, and if he is wrong it is still guaranteed to be a while (unless this trope is purposely subverted). Gut feeling can be broken down into three categories:

1) Judge of character.The main character is an infallible judge of character: his gut feeling about a person, not necessarily based on more than a couple minutes of interaction, is by far the most accurate measurement available of how good or evil that person is. For example: If a person has an "honest face," we can probably trust them. Perhaps writers think this is a subtler way to quickly point out who the bad guys are.

Often the main character isn't aware of this, it's just that the villain conveniently turns out to be someone they were uneasy about all along. Sometimes, though, characters are willing to risk a lot on that gut feeling; when this happens they're usually right. This is also common trait of the mary sue; they're perfect, so anyone who they don't like has to be the bad guy.

Compare evil-detecting dog. Contrast the horrible judge of character.

2) Reading the villain's mind.Another well established piece of heroic gut feeling is that the hero can read the villain's mind. Or close enough. If the hero has a gut feeling about where the villain is hiding, (or the bank robber's getaway method, or where the terrorists have hidden the bomb, or where the arms dealers are meeting, or where the killer hid the body, etc), you can safely disregard any and all evidence to the contrary because the hero will inevitably be proved right.

For example, it won't matter if the police have a gang's written plans, recorded phone calls, and the like saying they're going to rob Bank A, if the lead character/detective has a gut feeling they'll rob Bank B it will all turn out to be an elaborate fake-out, or the gang knew they were being watched and recorded and were speaking in code. Particularly common in summer action movies and film noir. (In fact, regardless of a detective's condition, including being constantly drunk, paranoid, insane, and otherwise idiotic, his gut feeling will be his redeeming factor. Usually the only exception is if the crooks are the main characters, in which case the detective's Gut Feeling will be known about and used to their advantage).

Compare: i just knew3) He's okay, I can feel itIf major characters are separated and/or there's a question about one of them surviving or succeeding in their task, but one character says calmly, "I know he's okay, I can feel it," then you can all but guarantee that this character will in fact be okay, despite the character not having anything to base this on. Common in cheesy movies of the 60s, 70s, and 80s, and still found from time-to-time in Adventure and Action movies, as well as manga and anime, where such is often attributed to the power of friendship or the power of love.

Gut Feeling Related Tropes      Examples: (Judge of Character)(reading the villain's mind)(he's okay, I just know it)(Other Examples)