This is a character who simply doesn't like to be touched, whether it be by a stranger or someone they know. They may be this way as a result of a bad experience, simple shyness, or because they just don't have the tolerance/patience for such things. Sometimes there's something wrong with them in a dangerous way and they know it. There's a good chance that they may be something of a loner as well. Sometimes they change for the better later on, sometimes they don't and sometimes the fact that they don't like to be touched isn't treated as a problem in the first place.

If it is treated like a problem, expect their love interest to attempt to fix it at some point. Most of the time, they succeed but the amount of blunders and time it takes depends greatly on the genre and nature of the story. At other times, they may already have a special person whose touch doesn't trigger any averse reaction, indicating a particularly trusting relationship.

In real life, this is called tactile defensiveness, and is common in abuse victims and people with conditions like ADHD or autism spectrum disorders, and especially with OCD, but even then, some people just don't like it and can't explain why. The perception that someone hates being touched can also come as a result of a culture clash: if someone believes that touching is an intimate gesture to be shared among close friends and lovers, then the American custom of shaking hands with someone the first time you meet them would be overly-intimate, akin to walking up to a complete stranger, grabbing their face, and Frenching them. Depending on culture and personality, attempting to touch the person could result in a hand off, the person stepping back to regain some sense of personal space, or an attack on the personal space invader; however, adequately befriending them will usually remove the touch taboo in this case.

If someone like this actually lets someone else touch them, you can rest assured that something serious has just happened.

For instant hilarity, pair them up with someone that has no sense of personal space or a cuddle bug. However, if you don't want them to punch you in the face, air hugging may be a better choice. May sometimes be a trait that tsundere share.

