The quintessential example of dudley do-right stops to help.

Whenever a character wants to be good (or, perhaps, only appear good), he or she will often resort to public acts of kindness to random strangers. Upon seeing a frail little old lady standing on the side of the road, our "hero" will naturally try to help her get to the other side, usually without asking her if she wanted the help or not. If the character is particularly strong, they will often pick the poor granny up and just carry her across, especially if they are in a hurry.

Usually, this ends with the old lady complaining that she never wanted to cross the street in the first place, but our "hero" has usually rushed off to do some other heroic deed by then. If the old lady is a particularly crabby one, she will usually give her helper a biff with her walking stick or handbag.

This sort of behaviour is common among Boy Scouts, or their fictional equivalents.

The straight example of the "helping the old lady across the street" bit has pretty much become a dead horse trope these days, which is why the only examples you'll see in modern media involve the subversion of the old lady never wanting to cross in the first place, or crankily belting the hero with their cane or handbag. It can also be a stock excuse, especially among villainous types who are late.

Compare puddle-covering chivalry.

 One ad for the Boy Scouts parodies this. Two Scouts offer to help an old lady cross a ravine. On a zipline. And she forgot to take her purse with her.

 An old Inland Revenue advert in the United Kingdom featured a man taking the old lady across the street. She then whacks the man and darts back across the street in order to catch the bus she was waiting for.

  In the Spanish comic books  In the French comic books  A 1970s issue of     Subverted in  In   The Russian show   In the  The Mowglis'   In  In his  In  Played straight in   It's occasionally mentioned that the girls in   In one     In  In  In  The "Muddy Road" Zen  There are some non-ironic examples in 