When it comes to a character's backstory, there is usually one event that stands out among all the rest and made the character what they are. They watched their parents die. They killed someone... or failed to. They let someone down. They ran away from something. This event will surely be the core of their dark and troubled past, something that they have been spending the rest of their life coping with, living in the shadow of, accepting, or just trying to put out of memory...

Simply put, backstory is a theme. And themes need resolutions. Thanks to the law of conservation of detail, you can probably bet that the resolution to a character's backstory will involve them facing the exact same or similar event that haunted their past, allowing them to conquer their demons once and for all... or die by them. Such event is guaranteed to be a climax of some sort.

History tends to repeat itself in the following ways:

 Character finds themselves faced with the same decision as before. They'll either make the right decision this time, or fail the same way again.

 Character finds themselves faced with a danger, obstacle, or enemy from their past, something they have a very strong, personal grudge against. If they failed the first time, or perhaps succeeded out of pure luck, they'll be able to stand up to it with their own skill this time... or fail again.

 Character finds themselves faced with the same type of tragedy from their past. This time, they'll be emotionally mature enough to handle it.

 Character sees someone else going through the same series of events they did. They'll have a chance to help... or use it against them.

Note that a simple chekhov's gun cannot qualify. It's also not a realization, symbolic or otherwise, that they've failed or accomplished some life's goal or made some dead person happy. This needs to be a full-blown parallelism between what happened before the story started and what happened during the story.

Compare with book ends and my greatest second chance.

Has nothing to do with putting your michael jackson album on repeat all night.

