OK, let's say you're still writing that movie, which is very loosely based on a true story. You've chosen a period of history that involves a lot of exciting fight scenes and explosions so your audience won't fall asleep and now you need some main characters.

But there's a problem: most of the real life figures were morally grey and complex people. How are you going to make sure that your audience knows who the hero is?

Well, all you have to do is to pick someone who was on your side. If you're American, all you have to do is choose a heroic American. Or failing that, an Irishman or a Scotsman (just as long as they fought those dastardly Englishmen/Germans/Commies/Arabs). And if you're English, you'll want to support that brave and heroic King William the Conqueror against those treacherous English bas... Hey—wait a second...But hang on. There's another problem. Your new hero doesn't quite fit our modern standards of goodness. Maybe he was a slave trader. Or a wife-beater. Or an openly admitted racial bigot. What are you going to do now?

Well, all you have to do is give your newfound hero a few pet-the-dog moments, adjust his looks for modern tastes and cut out or ignore anything of his life that doesn't fit your artistic vision.

Note that just because this trope happens to a person does NOT mean that he was evil in real life; he is simply being portrayed more positively in the work of fiction than he was in real life.

Note that this trope isn't always played seriously; sometimes, a character will be retroactively turned into something on par with a memetic badass purely due to rule of cool, upgraded in ways that are obviously intended to go far beyond any real-world heroism. The most extreme examples of this, of course, often overlap with beethoven was an alien spy.

This trope is the opposite of a historical villain upgrade, although many figures often get one of those as well in works with a different viewpoint. They may also appear alongside each other when applied to different people, to make the black and white morality contrast even more obvious. May overlap with historical beauty update, historical badass upgrade, values dissonance, politically correct history, broken pedestal and flanderization.

When fan fic writers do this to a canon character, it's draco in leather pants. When it's done with original characters in an adaptation of the source work, it's adaptational heroism.

