The lazy costume tropes. This is where items of clothing are only worn by certain types of characters. It's done so that these people will be certain to have distinctive appearances.

This isn't always a bad thing. On strictly formula TV, there isn't always the time to subtly tell us what a character is like, so their clothes act like visual markers. It can also be helpful in less-than-subtle theatre, such as pantomime.

When the same thing is done to show us where a character comes from rather than what their personality is, see culture equals costume. (Of course, certain works will assume that cultural origin determines personality, so there's likely to be overlap between the two stereotypes.)

Note this applies to regular outfits, not something someone tries on for just one episode.

Compare dress-coded for your convenience, villainous fashion sense, stock costume traits. hat shop is a subtrope.

Not to be confused with an actual dress code, nor to be confused with hollywood costuming.

 It's rare to see someone wear glasses who isn't a  Suspenders (braces in the UK, galluses if you're  In British English, "suspenders" are the sort of stocking garters that encircle the leg above the stocking and are clipped to the stocking by little elastic strips, glimpses of which are still  If you wear a  A fur coat on a man means he's a pimp, a playa, a  If a male character wears a leather coat, the style will reflect the character type:

 A man in a business suit (lately) is pre-known to be in the  For bowties, it's all in the color. If it's a black bowtie worn with a matching suit, you're ridiculously refined. If it's a coloured bowtie you're a bit mad. If it doesn't match the suit then you're just tragically nerdy.

 Men in work uniforms (as opposed to military uniforms) are subsumed by their jobs. The job is the role, not the man.

 A woman in  Baseball caps. They can be worn casually by grown men and women, and some jobs even have that in the uniform. Yet in media, no job seems to require a baseball cap (because those hats aren't embarrassing enough), no women seem to wear them, and if you are an adult and wear one with the bill facing forward, it means you are a slob, a trucker, or  A man in T-shirt and jeans is a regular joe. Since the 90s, often the men are also sporting plaid shirts over their T-shirts, especially on U.S. sitcoms (Ted in  The  Male  Facial piercings, unnatural hair colours and tattoos can be a sign that the character is dangerous. On anyone under 18, they show that the character is a teenage rebel, or the body modification is simply something to fight with their parents about.

 Strapless dresses clearly indicate you're at least a  If you wear a  A woman in a military uniform is either intensely  If you are wearing a track suit, you are

 A headband worn across the forehead has two meanings. If it is worn with warm-ups and wristbands, you are a nerd exercising. If worn with almost anything else, you are either a badass or a flower child. Never both.

 For the subject of skirts and dresses:

 A variation is that certain jobs require clothing that is almost never worn now, but was, at some time, the common style for that profession.

 Another example is hats like trilbies or fedoras being worn by...well, pretty much anybody who's not a  Deerstalker hats are pretty much limited to cartoon detectives and Sherlock Holmes. In reality though they were mostly worn by hunters—hence their name—and would actually be out of place for a fashion conscious urban fellow.

 If a woman is wearing a short, usually leopard print skirt, fishnet stockings (or torn tights), granny boots, an off-the-shoulder Flashdance-style t-shirt with a Union Jack or skull print, heavy makeup and elaborately teased, spiked and sprayed short hair (with or without red or blue streaks), chances are she's a punk rocker in an  Males who wear shorts as everyday street clothes are the This can also be spoofed when a character actually changes character type when a piece of clothing is put on or removed.

 Lady Une from  Also the basis of a game on  White Wolf's  Basis of a Warner Brothers cartoon where a multitude of hats fall out of a truck and blow in the wind, causing Elmer Fudd and Bugs Bunny to change characters as various hats land on their heads.

