Some biologically or spiritually evil — or not exactly evil — things react violently to holy stuff, causing not just physical pain but violent and fearful reactions. Tangentially related to revive kills zombie, as a related fantasy kryptonite factor. A possible form of glamour failure and, depending on execution, a weaksauce weakness.

In worlds with multiple ideas of what counts as "holy"—like, for example, this one—this can play in a few ways, such as:

 Evil creatures are repelled by a holy object of the faith they believe in/used to believe in/are associated with. (A Jewish vampire is repelled by Torah scrolls, but laughs at crosses.)

 You repel creatures by using a holy object that  One symbol in particular is effective, or the symbols of one particular faith. (For example, crosses hurt vampires, period.) This might be because one faith is objectively correct, it might be for some other reason, or the characters may not know what the reason is—but if you want to scare off evil, that's the symbol you use.

In video games with elemental rock-paper-scissors, if Holy and Darkness are elements, this trope will always work, and occasionally the inverse will be true as well.

vampires tend to have at least one weakness of this kind. especially old, powerful, or insane vampires may be able to fight off the kryptonite thanks to their cross-melting aura and attack.

For whatever reason, people who experience this trope usually hiss. Probably because of the aforementioned vampires.

Occasionally, creatures that are merely supernatural and not normally associated with evil, such as fairies, are subject to this trope. When the hero uses this to his advantage, see depleted phlebotinum shells.

Compare to kill it with fire and weakened by the light. A subtrope of good hurts evil. See also protective charm and holy hand grenade. Most examples that are played for laughs are also faux horrific. Contrast holy is not safe, where the holy object is just as dangerous to good-aligned characters as evil.

