In fiction, teens are ruled by their hormones. Be it boy or girl or something else, they want to attract attention from the opposite sex (and even both at once!). They will think about this all the time and base their actions around it.

A teenage girl automatically wants to wear provocative clothes, date sleazy guys, do poorly in school and otherwise give her father a reason to be an overprotective dad. If she doesn't do anything like that, she still secretly wants to. There's likely to be a secondary character avert this by being a tomboy or otherwise ostensibly uninterested in "girly" things, but even most of them secretly drool over guys, because in writer-land there's no such thing as a girl who isn't obsessed with boys (or occasionally other girls). If she's not interested in fashion at the start, she usually gets an a makeover (unnecessary or otherwise) and subsequently winds up dating the male lead.

A girl is seldom allowed to be realistically uncomfortable with her changing body, or want to maybe stay a child a little longer. In real life, many young teenage girls have trouble adjusting to their changing bodies and the resultant shift in attention they receive, do not look forward to having a period, and/or are simply disinterested in boys until they reach their later adolescence. In fiction, a late bloomer is almost universally used only if she's going to become interested in boys and clothes, with the unfortunate implication that there's something wrong with any girl who doesn't, or that a girl is 'incomplete' without a boy.

This is an unfortunate side effect of the most writers are male phenomenon; male writers may simply have little to no understanding about how teenage girls work. Books by female writers, especially those that are aimed at a teenage audience, can be better at averting this than adult media that contain teenage characters.

A teenage boy automatically wants to be buff, date fast girls, slack off in school and otherwise give justification for dads to be overprotective. They fall victim to obsession with the other sex, which is fairly unrealistic when the boy in question is still a preteen. Boys tend to be portrayed as spending much if not all their brain-power on getting/dating/impressing girls, when in real life most have hobbies and a life outside of skirt-chasing (especially younger boys, unless they're early bloomers).

A boy is seldome allowed to not be interested in sex. After all, a man is not a virgin and all boys want to become manly men as soon as possible, right? Their other interests, if they have any, are second to girl-chasing because a man is always eager. This trope comes with the unfortunate implication that there's something wrong with any boy that is not sexually active or that a boy is 'incomplete' without a girl.

If the writer is male, they may become better-thought-out characters because most writers are male. Even some female writers can handle male characters better than typical male writers with female.

(Younger) sister trope of all women are lustful and all men are perverts. As with adult characters, there's no such thing as asexuality, and there are almost always no bisexuals, especially among teen males. Older female teens will (very rarely) be allowed to be bi, but again that's because most writers are male. This trope comes from the same sort of mindset as everybody has lots of sex, since both tropes assume that involvement with the opposite sex is highly important to everyone, but usually not alongside it except in a particularly risqué depiction of the high school setting.

Though this is taken to severe extremes in fiction, many adults and even some teenagers (and this varies by community) will agree that this is truth in television. Its opposite is no hugging, no kissing. See also bratty teenage daughter and dumbass teenage son.

