manipulative bastards are terribly hard to write and even harder to act. Really hard. And even then, most audiences simply cannot wrap their minds around the fact that this apparently sweet old lady or that elegant young gent actually are terrible jerks with a total disregard for the well-being of others — without it coming off like a face-heel turn or a sudden villainous breakdown. real life manipulators appear convincing and interested in your own good, and soothe one in by being nice, kind, getting your sympathy and if that doesn't suffice for them to get everything they want, they begin pushing buttons as they lie whenever they can get away with it. All of that is so subtle that it usually escapes the people who it is happening to.

As a remedy for being unable to write such a character convincingly, writers instead make the manipulated victim carry an idiot ball. That means that everyone else, especially the six-year-old target audience, can and will immediately identify the manipulator as evil. How does this work? The manipulated victim is simply a Horrible Judge Of Character! Do we even have to say unfortunate implications? Compare to when only the protagonists see through the manipulator and everyone else holds him in high regard, in that case it's a devil in plain sight. Compare to The alpha bitch who is quite often also transparently mean, abusive and treacherous to everyone (who doesn't have the authority to punish her for it), yet inside her clique (read: "popular" and/or upper-class people), magically everyone likes her.

When the plot requires for this Horrible Judge Of Character to regularly make card carrying villains his most intimate confidants, they're the ingenue — or too dumb to live. Innocence and helplessness may attract guardians and friends, but will also make them vulnerable  candidates to get romantically involved with troubled, but cute or the vamp.

On the extreme end, the friend to all living things will also be intensely loyal to their friends, so they'll ignore all evidence that the Manipulator means them harm. When true friends try to point them to suspicious behavior or even show outright damning evidence, they will get a pouty "you're just jealous of our friendship!" and be blown off as the cassandra, probably earning an earful about how Baron Bloodlove is a wonderful human being who just happens to be around whenever someone's bloodless corpse is found.

It usually takes a point blank evil monologue from their "friend" over the true companion's corpse to even faze them into considering the possibility they might not be as hug-tastic a friend as they thought. If it doesn't break them, then they'll just turn right back around and follow their "friend" around, say he forgives them for killing off thousands and betraying him completely, and insist the power of trust and friendship will redeem them.

This may or may not work.

If it's romantic, expect a love martyr, love makes you dumb or mad love. If the "friend" is a chessmaster, then they're an unwitting pawn. If the horrible judge of character causes a horrible plot development by doing this, they are an unwitting instigator of doom. Contrast evil cannot comprehend good. In larger numbers, expect to get gullible lemmings.

