retirony is especially cruel when it strikes a character down in his or her prime just as he or she begins embarking on success and glory. At least the old soldiers in combat made something out of their lives even if they found no peace afterwards. These young souls don't have the opportunity to become somebodies — they get just a little taste of it before suffering a career-ending injury or circumstances force them to throw it all away. Naturally, this will be right after they reach the point that would make them bona fide superstars.

Years long after, the disillusioned nobodies still can't get the taste of what could have been out of their mouths. This may lead to them taking their pent-up frustration out on the youths who look to be fast becoming the kind of people Fate prevented them from joining.

The lost opportunity or career is most commonly some form of sports, but non-sports related careers are not unheard of.

A super trope to the pete best (where they got forced out by others rather than fate).

Compare sorry, billy, but you just don't have legs, stage mom, glory days, trade your passion for glory. white-dwarf starlet is a related phenomenon, where the person got their moment of glory — it just didn't last long, and the bitterness is tangible. Sometimes associated with jaded washout.

  On   An example outside of sports: Oji Tanaka, the protagonist of    This happens at a pretty young age to Coco in  Invoked and subverted in  The  This is how the plot of  In the 'Club of Heroes' arc in  One of the   In    The majority of sports films, it seems. Heck, even some only tangentially related to sports (e.g.,  In   Subverted in the movie     Spoofed with the Mary (Had A Little Lamb) character in   Marty's   Used directly in the film  In the film   Double Subverted in the film version of  Deconstructed in the film   Inverted in   The book   Bran in  In  Ursula Vernon wrote a  Al Bundy from   Star quarterback Jason Street suffers a spinal injury in the  The  The prevalence of this in sports films is parodied in  In  Ted, the co-pilot in   In  The central premise of  Donaldson, the money-grubbing researcher from  One episode of  The UnSub of one episode of  Elsa Mars of   Pete Best, or, "That Drummer For   Dave Mustaine was kicked out of   In the mid-90s, people thought that the   R&B singer   The show   New Jersey band  The subject, indeed the first line of the chorus, of "Heavyweight Champion of the World" by Reverend and the Makers:

 Ed Crankshaft in   In the musical    In  In    The title character in the   While he doesn't seem bitter about it,  One of the NPCs in   Mitsuki Hayase in   Simon Wood of  This article from   Hank Hill in  Parodied in  In   Bill Butterfield, a high-school football player from Texas. It was evident that he was bitter about not going beyond high school football, given the way he tried to force his son, Lance, into the spotlight. Said actions eventually resulted in his murder, when after years of abusive training Lance snapped and turned a .38 on him.

 Todd Marinovich, who briefly played for the Los Angeles Raiders. His dad, Marv Marinovich, was a coulda-been himself, and resolved to train Todd from an early age to be the perfect athlete. It almost worked, and Marinovich seemed set for a lengthy professional career. The problem was that his sheltered upbringing - he had been forbidden from eating chocolates or takeaway food - failed him when he left home for college, and he quickly transformed into a drunk party animal who spend his free time smoking dope. He had enough residual strength and talent to last a year in the NFL but was eventually suspended for failing drug tests (he tried to avoid this by switching to LSD, which did nothing for his concentration). After a six-year layoff he attempted to return to professional football, but his career was permanently derailed by injury and a new heroin habit. Frustratingly he was still capable of producing good results right up until the end of his career.

  Common enough in   Lenny Mancini was a promising and talented young boxer during the 30s and 40s, having actually become the # 1 contender for the world lightweight champion before he was drafted into the Army when  Subverted by many people who succeeded later in life, such as  Gretel Bergmann was a world class high jumper in the 1930s, setting national records. She should have competed for her native Germany in the 1936 Games, but she was Jewish. In fact the Germans initially let her on their team to placate the IOC and to prevent an American boycott. Once the Americans were on their way (and under the thumb of the pro-German Avery Brundage) the Nazis expelled her from the team, though she tied the German record a month before (and that height would have won her a medal in the event).

 Subverted also by the Manning Family. While father Archie Manning was an NFL quarterback in the 70's (a good player on the abysmally bad Saints teams at the time) and both Peyton and Eli are Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks (Peyton with the Colts and Eli with the Giants), there's a third Manning brother (the oldest, actually) Cooper who was a hot prospect wide receiver in high school before a diagnosis of a spinal condition ended his career. He's not bitter about it, having gone into finance.

 Subverted by  Jesus Chavez was a top Mexican boxing prospect whom many believed would have been the next great boxing star from South America. He even gave Floyd Mayweather Jr. one of his toughest fights at the 135 division. However, that all ended when he got into an vehicular accident which permanently damaged one of his knee caps. He tried to make a comeback afterwards, but the injury clearly interfered with his boxing, forcing him to retire.

