

This character is Jewish. How do we know?

Well, remember when the show did the christmas special? And there was that aesop about diversity and the other holidays in December? And she was shown with a menorah lighting candles? But then again, you never see her observing Passover, or the High Holy Days.

Fine, but then there was that episode about pork and how she keeps Kosher? despite the shrimp cocktail and cheeseburger she had for dinner.OK what about her Bat Mitzvah? You know, the characters were confused by the whole thing, and how they learned about her traditions. Which never got mentioned before or since.And that's the problem. A character who practices Informed Judaism will perform acts that most people can recognize as being Jewish, in contrast to the non-Jewish characters, but they don't show any more subtle signs of Judaism, even for an assimilated Jew, even the cultural aspect. Their Judaism becomes an informed attribute. The characters listed on this page are Jewish because the writers tell us, they don't show us, possibly because you have to have jews.

This is a trope that pops up in a number of western animation christmas episodes; due to the nature of the shows' audience, the powers that be will want to place an aesop in to show that the characters keep a diverse set of friends or peers. As a result, a character's Judaism is mentioned at some point in the episode, or perhaps a menorah will just be shown in the background, in order to keep up that diverse appearance. After all, who really knows what other religiously affiliated holidays are celebrated by a large enough group of people in the mid to late period of December? This will in fact be the only mention of religion throughout the episode (if not the series) , as Christmas itself (assuming the name is used at all) will not be depicted as having any religious significance, but rather just be a "warm, feel good time", thus making this revelation of a major character feel shoehorned in. This is also despite the fact that since the Jewish calendar is a lunar one, there is no guarantee that Hannukah and Christmas will in any way overlap: Hannukah could be completely over way before Christmas starts.

Of course, there is a place between Informed Judaism and anvilicious. A character doesn't need to shout "Oy, how meshuggenah, a golem! I'm ferklempt!" to be non-informed Jewish, and likewise, not every character who has a Chanukkah Special is informed. It's more of a gestalt of the sense of the character. yiddish as a second language, for example, can be a clue...though, of course, pushing any element too far lands you back here.

This has an element of truth in television: Some Jews in countries where they've been able to assimilate increasingly practice their religion only on the most important holidays (Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur), and only celebrate Chanukah to have a winter holiday. They don't keep Kosher or observe the Sabbath. A practitioner of Reform or Reconstructionist Judaism — quite common in America — is especially likely to disregard most forms of Jewish ritual, including the Kosher laws. "High Holy Days Jews" are the Jewish equivalents of "Christmas-and-Easter Christians." That said, even many of these still show the cultural aspects of Judaism, often missing from these characters.

It is also true that Jews are not only people who practice Judaism. Generally, in modern secular usage, Jews include three groups: people who were born to a Jewish family regardless of whether or not they follow the religion, those who have some Jewish ancestral background or lineage (sometimes including those who do not have strictly matrilineal descent), and people without any Jewish ancestral background or lineage who have formally converted to Judaism and therefore are followers of the religion. Therefore, someone can be a Jew and no one else would know unless they asked. Many Jews do not do any religious rituals, and some even have Christmas trees ("Chanukkah bush").

This has occasionally sparked controversy, in cases of religious figures in other religions who have explicitly claimed Jewishness via ancestry. A particularly well-known recent example is the late French Cardinal Lustiger, the former archbishop of Paris and a son of Polish Jews (his mother was killed during the Holocaust). He described himself as a "fulfilled Jew" all his life and maintained Jewish customs even as a Roman Catholic clergyman (he was known to recite Kaddish for his mother at a synagogue even after he became a cardinal, for example). Still, he was subject to much criticism by both Jewish and Christian groups.

fan fiction often subjects these characters to extreme flanderization.

It should be noted that speculating on whether or not someone is really a Jew (if they're patrilineal, a convert, or secular, for example) in real life is a big no-no, especially if the person doing the speculating is themselves not Jewish. There's a reason why this list has no real life examples.

Contrast ambiguously jewish, where a character displays stereotypically Jewish traits, but is never referred to as such; halfway between these two is reality. Compare raised catholic, which shares some characteristics with this trope.

