

This, simply, is a character or a society who, either by training or by intuition, understands the resources and rhythms of nature exceptionally well, and lives accordingly. They may be able survive in, or travel through, an apparently forbidding wilderness with ease. If they're not an actual nature hero, they'll probably be a virtually self-sufficient farmer or gardener, able to coax glorious harvests out of the ground with a single trowel and love (and certainly never with pesticides) and will pontificate about the ancient wisdom of the soil. At the very least, they'll be able to experience a simple jaunt through the countryside on a deeper level to any more urban-minded people around them. They are, invariably, nature lovers.

In more anvilicious works, this overlaps with friend to all living things. Usually, however, living in harmony with nature requires you to kill the occasional creature, and even if you never take more than you need and have immense respect for the little critters you're roasting over the campfire, this does tends to deter them from gathering around you adoringly while you sing.

When confined to cities, characters who are in harmony with nature will often become distressed and wonder how the other characters can bear to live in such choking sterile surroundings. Characters raised by wolves will almost inevitably be like this, as will the magical native american and the noble savage. Often a characteristic of a mary suetopia.

See also harmony versus discipline, this trope being Harmony.

 Definitely the Wolfriders and Sun Folk in  This trope is almost the entire point of  The Na'vi in   The elves in  In   This trope is parodied with various characters in  In  In the  Parodied in  Dickon in  In  In  In fact, the vast majority of  In Zilpha Keatley Snyder's  The Sevenwaters clan in   Cody Lundin of  The subject of "In Perfect Harmony" by  Druids in   Subverted in  The  Kuraii, from a type of cat species in  In the Camping Episode of  The ponies, in  The fairies in  The  Ray Mears.

 Ancient Hawaii. The people had sort of a shifting schedule of taboo that made sure that they never ran out of a resource.

 The Australian Aborigines. Even their religion was based on being in harmony with nature.

 Often assumed to be the case with native North American society, but not really. These guys lived in complicated societies with trade routes, urban centres, and, yes, deforestation. On the other hand, they did understand the North American environment far better than the white settlers did, but still. It turns out that Native people are human, and not, in fact, elves.

 In a subversion  The ideal is 