Sometimes the hero doesn't get a happy ending because no ending could conceivably be happy. It would mean the end of the adventures, and nothing could be more dull than the lack of the adrenaline. He's not really alive out of danger. An adrenaline junkie, often enough.

Sometimes the hero is depicted as a stranger in a familiar land trapped in a dull job or situation, fondly recalling his glory days; when a new chance at adventure arises, they invariably jump on it. Sometimes the hero at the beginning already sets out in search of new adventure. Sometimes, in the middle of the story, the hero has a chance to leave, and this is one motive for rejecting it. And sometimes it is an ending trope; the hero resolves not to return to mundane life, and the adventure continues. This is the common ending of adrenaline makeover.

Some heroes who make a fortune and promptly lose it foolishly may fall under this trope, because it means that they can return to the fun of making money, and the non-idle rich may trample familial objections to stick to a dangerous occupation when they don't need the money, to avoid rich boredom. And sometimes the love of being in harm's way is merely implied, when the hero never seems to find anything worth stopping for. the dulcinea effect may not be so much by desire to help as the chance to get into the thick of things.

This can be an intermittent condition in some heroes; they adventure, get tired of it, settle down, get tired of it, adventure — etc. At other times, it may propel a hero to adventure for years on end before realizing, finally, that he has burned out and wants to settle down. Sometimes, being forced by circumstance to stay in one place grows on him until he realizes that he really does love home sweet home after all.

Characters who enjoy putting themselves In Harms Way include these:



 The  The  The  The  The  The  The  And as for the  The  The ... and probably more.

Related to chronic hero syndrome and chronic villainy. One of the more reasonable ways to maintain status quo. Many heroic fantasy heroes keep going in unending series because they are in love with being in harm's way. Inverse of home sweet home.

Frequently found with a love of famed in story. See also glad-to-be-alive sex.

For the john wayne film of the same name, go here.