Not all space aliens in fiction are evil invaders who terrorize our fair planet with their high-tech war machines, and demand to be taken to our leader. Some of them are in fact quite nice. They're not looking for any trouble, and all they want is to be left alone, make a friend, or just get by in our strange and unfamiliar Earth culture.

The innocent aliens are like this. They've just arrived at our planet (though in some, rarer cases, we go to theirs, instead) and are total babes in the woods, displaying a very warped understanding of the humans' way of life. They're wide-eyed and childlike, and occasionally even need protection from hostile human beings, often trigger-happy military types who think they're up to no good and need to be exterminated for the common good.

In some kinds of stories, these aliens are used to prove that humans are the real monsters, especially if they or the rest of the interplanetary community live peaceful, enlightened lives and we humans are the ones who go around shooting things and generally being destructive.

Often the "come in peace" part of we come in peace — shoot to kill. Contrast aliens are bastards. If they're played for laughs, they may also be amusing aliens as well.

 In  In  In the 2001  Astral in  The Firstcomers in     Given that  In  Jake, the Space Cat form  Klaatu from the original   The title character from  MAC, from the infamous  The aliens from  Leeloo from  The Thermians from   The aliens from   The aliens from  Both astronaut Chuck Baker and the aliens he encounters in the subversive  After the  The aliens in  In   Ashley from the  Acorna from the  The piggies from the  All the aliens on Mars and Venus in the  Amy Thomson's   Thomas Jerome Newton in  Zenna Henderson's  A few different species from   The Venette Convention from the  Leó Szilárd, the famous nuclear physicist also wrote some short stories. In one called "Report on 'Grand Central Terminal'", alien scientists arrive to Earth after a nuclear war wiped out all life. They completely fail to understand things like the monetary system and think that war between the members of one species is impossible. The only alien who figures it out is dismissed by his superiors.

 Somewhat averted in   Ruthlessly subverted in   The alien, Josh Exley, in  Occasionally present on  Cole, from  They're pretty much all  The Mr. Saturns from  Elvis, the Maian from  The Lumas from   In  The  Xananab from  One  The Martians from  Most of the aliens in   Dr. Zoidberg from  Starfire from  Now M'gann aka Miss Martian from  Mo-Ron from  The Skinnies from  Orbie from 