When the government or mega corp. is a bastion of corruption, it's time to call in la résistance to topple it, right? Well, these people had a different idea.

The Internal Reformist, rather than going through the horrors of war to topple the government, has made it their mission to change the system from within. Often they are the last dj, seemingly the only honest person in a corrupt system, or at least the only one willing to do something about the problem. Such people, while sometimes effective, may however end up becoming just as bad as the bureaucracy they are trying to change. They may attempt their reforms in a number of ways:

 The Internal Reformist uses the system against those in power, either by guile and subterfuge to hog-tie or trick those in charge into doing what's right, or playing by the systems rules and accumulating the power to put someone with better morals in charge, who can peacefully and lawfully make the changes required. Characters which try this usually have a certain amount of authority already within the hierarchy, and/or have powerful allies and intimate knowledge of how things are done within the system. They rely a great deal on secrecy to accomplish their goals, though invariably their enemies within the system start noticing who the big trouble makers on the inside are, and start putting things in their way even if they can't prove they are up to something with any substantial evidence.

 The Internal Reformist works towards bringing the worst of the  The Internal Reformist in effect uses Gandhi-style peaceful protest, refusing to participate in immoral or unlawful activities and continuing to do what's right no matter how much the system throws at them in an attempt to make them give in. In some ways these types can be the most dangerous, and the most conspicuous, type of reformist as they tend to attract a great deal of allies, who come out of the woodwork once someone demonstrates that it's possible to stand up for what you believe in. Usually these types start out low on the totem pole, though usually with some advantage others might not have. They tend to gain authority quickly, either because their competence forces the system to give it to them, or those in change are trying to break or cripple them under the pressure of such authority. Sometimes these type do break under the pressure or simply lose the will to openly oppose the system and continue to live their ideals with honor but in quiet.

Usually it is possible for an Internal Reformist to think they have a chance at changing the system because the system still has to answer to a higher authority, whether it be the public, who has no clue this is going on, or some other umbrella organization or system that is on the straight and narrow. The governments also tend to more or less take care of their people in a satisfactory way, otherwise the public would suspect all the corruption within and there would be some real rioting in the street-type activities, resulting an actual Revolution.

Compare velvet revolution, rage within the machine, outside man, inside man and reverse mole. Contrast the revolution will not be civilized. A subtrope of my country, right or wrong, in this case, a loyalist who intends to make things right.

 Public Safety Section 9 from  In  From  From  The members of the Six Houses of Kyoto of  The Demon Queen in  America Beeny in  Until his fall from grace, Harvey Dent/Two-Face from  In   In  Julia in  In the  In  The Vorkosigans and their circle of friends in   In   In the fifth season of  During late stages of the arc revolving around trying to depose  Ted from  Ron Swanson from  Master Bra'tac advises Teal'c to be this when the latter takes over as Apophis's First Prime in  In  In  In  In   Reeve Tuesti from  Paz from  In a  Martin Luther tried to do this to the Catholic Church. Things didn't go as planned, and the resultant mess is best known as "the Reformation."

 Desiderius Erasmus also tried this with the Catholic Church, but when Martin Luther launched his own campaign, he was forced to retract many of his previous reformist statements to avoid being associated with Luther's more radical position.

  Deng Xiaoping did this with China and its economic system.  When Franco, the fascist leader of Spain, began considering who would run the place when he died, he selected a member of the exiled royal family. The young prince seemed to be a loyal fascist and Franco groomed him to take over as leader, setting up a revived Spanish Crown that would operate according to fascist ideology. Almost as soon as the old goat was buried, King Juan Carlos started, supported, and in one foiled coup attempt, personally saved, reforms that more or less peacefully transformed Spain into a democratic constitutional monarchy.

