People in real life are unique, irreplaceable, with their own specific background and personality.

Not so in fiction. Some characters are better known as symbols than as people. Consequently, as long as you keep the basic elements of a character (their essence) you can have infinite variations of the same character. Without those elements, you would have a completely different character rather than a new version.

Any character can undergo some variations depending on the writer. But not every character can have major reinterpretations and remain the same character.

For example take batman. He has numerous different interpretations. Some are campy, some are realistic but gritty, some are darker, cartoony etc. But all share the basic elements of a man named Bruce Wayne who dons a bat costume and fights crime. If we saw another character named Batman who stayed at home and argued eloquently on the Internet, we'd have a totally different character, despite the name.

On the other hand Jack Sparrow from Pirates of the Caribbean isn't as interpretative. You can't just take any drunk pirate and call him "Jack Sparrow". Anyone who tries to emulate or parody him, would need to keep Johnny Depp's mold intact. This character's specific personal appearance, clothes, mannerisms, and manner of speech would need to be kept the same (or exaggerated in case of parody). Disney even admitted that without Johnny Depp the franchise would be "dead and buried". His characterization may change slightly depending on the writer, but there isn't really much room for variation.

Contrast captain ersatz, where a variation of an Interpretative Character is introduced as a new character, and expy, where a new character is designed around the defining tropes of another non - Interpretative Character.

May overlap with era-specific personality. iconic characters are the ones most likely to fall into this.

Not to be confused with alternative character interpretation, character derailment, depending on the writer, or in name only.

