

A character who is In Touch With His Feminine Side, is a male who lacks certain stereotypically male traits and may adopt some stereotypically girlish traits. Such characters are sometimes referred to as being 'Sensitive.'

Both genders have their stereotypical roles in society—to prove it, you can read up on them in the gender dynamics index—but society has come a long way and characters which subvert expected gender roles are on the rise, becoming more accepted and even popular. Before the Tomboy in tomboy and girly girl might have been ridiculed, but now she is mostly accepted along with her more 'feminine' counterpart. The Sensitive Guy in sensitive guy and manly man is somewhat less socially acceptable in its extreme forms (double standard strikes again) and may subvert gender norms, but characters which embody this trope are no less interesting than any other.

Keep in mind that our views of gender have actually changed over time and some traits which now might be considered manly or feminine, actually weren't in the past, so this is mostly only valid for modern characters. Also people are different and even characters which are unquestionably "Manly" might have a few of these traits. To qualify a character must have a large percentage of these traits and/or have their effeminate-ness be remarked on in-universe.

     Of note is the fact that 'sensitive' or 'effeminate' doesn't automatically mean lame or useless, as agent peacock can attest. But even if he isn't an action hero, there are plenty of opportunities for him to be a guile hero or science hero, or all of his action may be through a humongous mecha or other vehicle that doesn't require a great deal of physical athleticism.

Also the 'Sensitive Male', while not being exactly embraced by males, is very popular with females, possibly for the same reason the tomboy is popular with males. Girls identify with them more than they might other male characters, and may find them attractive based on shared interests, or find they are a better audience surrogate.

If this character is taken to the extreme then he often becomes a camp straight, if straight, and camp gay, if otherwise. May become half of a masculine girl, feminine boy couple. Compare real men wear pink, agent peacock, uke and the dandy.

 The  Kimihiro Watanuki from  Also,  Natsume Takashi from  Shun from  More than one character from  One story in  Another Shun, this time from   The titular character of   Zebra from  Peter from  In the  You could definitely add the  Fisk from the   In the   According to  Rhett from    JD from   Kurt Hummel from  Chandler Bing in  Both Ted and Marshall from  Richard   Troy from    Captain Flowers from  The Christine Lavin song "Sensitive New Age Guys" is all about this.

 Parodied in Super KO Boxing 2, the last opponent, Executioner, in challenge mode wears a flower, crafting tools, and replaces his spikes with flowers while still look really scary.

 In  In  Karkat in   Sokka in  The show's sequel series,  Shifty Dingo from  In  PJ on   Pleakley from  Gromit from  On 