He's not good. He's not nice. He's a jerkass. What he just said is not what the main characters wanted to hear but he's right.

The jerkass in question can be anything from your ISO Standard jerkass or anti-hero all the way up to any flavor of villain (though the chance is inversely proportional to the distance they go down the "slippery slope"). Whoever he or she is, they're seriously deficient in the morals department, at least from the point of view of the perspective characters. Then they have a moment where they say something undeniably true - the good guys don't have to like what he's saying, but they can't deny he's right without deluding themselves. Perhaps even the protagonist is caught on a moral stumbling block, and the antagonist is all too glad to point out their hypocrisy. After all, at least the antagonist is honest about it.

The other main reason a character is likely to say "i can't believe i'm saying this, but I agree with him."

It's worth noting that the alpha bitch and the jerk jock, two of the main distributors of this trope, have a tendency toward bluntness. While our hero's friends may be hesitant to insult him, these characters don't really care what he thinks and are willing to say exactly what he's doing wrong, without sugarcoating their "what the hell, hero?".

A rare outcome of the claim that "We are not so different". A response of "shut up, hannibal!" would be out of place, and is likely to get shot down if it appears but a kirk summation could work. See also not himself and what the hell, hero? for situations likely to inspire this. See don't shoot the message for what happens when this occurs in real life. sister trope to dumbass has a point, the extremist was right, villain has a point and wisdom from the gutter.

Contrast strawman has a point, when a character who is often unpleasant makes a point that readers are meant to see as wrong and characters dismiss, but which is supported at least in part by evidence. Cases typically involve the listener conceding the point or a trustworthy source agreeing with the jerkass.

There is truth in television to this trope, and that's all we'll say about that.

