So you've created a fictional character. And they are, to be quite frank, a complete asshole. You're absolutely sure that the audience is going to absolutely loathe them and everything they stand for by the time they read... what's this? A fan website for them? What?!

It seems like in fiction, certain characters can get away with a lot of bad behaviour without losing the loyalty of the audience. Characters who you would think would be loathed and hated because of their actions can become the objects of the admiration and even lust of the audience. Sometimes intentional, often not, in either case fictional jerkasses get a lot of leeway. A principle behind many a magnificent bastard, draco in leather pants or misaimed fandom, jerkass dissonance occurs when the audience excuses the behaviour of a fictional character when it would most definitely not condone similar behaviour in real life.

The dissonance can be best summed up thus; where a fictional jerk may possess an intense and devoted fan-base of admirers and may, in-universe, be surrounded by a loyal (if long-suffering) group of friends and followers, in real life people considered to be jerks tend to be ostracized, and few choose to willingly associate with them. People in reality are quite intolerant of jerkass behaviour, particularly when directed towards them or those they care about, and being considered a jerk means that people don't actually like you very much. Just look at the deadpan snarker; they say rude, hurtful things to everyone around them, but the viewer eats it up because they're funny. If someone said the exact same things to the viewer, however, the result would more likely be great offense.

Of course, the scale varies. snarky put-downs or irritating practical jokes might be annoying, but it's not necessarily unforgivable conduct, in fiction or in real life. The Dissonance really begins to take strange effect when the character who is the subject of the fandom is engaging in conduct which, in real life, would see them comfortably identified as one of history's greatest monsters. There's reasons why people such as adolf hitler, josef stalin, jeffrey dahmer and john wayne gacy are considered some of the most hated and evil figures in history, but there are certain fictional characters who can do the same as them and more besides, but no matter how far they dive over the moral event horizon someone, somewhere, will be rushing to add it to the crowning moment of awesome list on this very site.

Some possible reasons for this phenomenon include:

 Fiction is, on some level, wish-fulfillment; we live vicariously through the characters and their actions. At some level, almost everyone wishes that they were brazen enough to flout society's rules and conventions and tend to latch on to characters who do so in stories, especially if done in a fashion where, regardless of how offensive their behaviour would actually be,  The reader is not affected by the consequences of the actions depicted. Whilst the behaviour of a real life bastard can have a direct impact on you, in fiction it's happening to someone else, and since they don't really exist it's not really happening to them either. Their behaviour is thus easier to forgive or overlook.

 We tend to empathize more with the characters who are drawn in more detail because, in a way, we get to know them better. We learn about who, say, the world-killing megalomaniac is and why he acts the way he does; we know his  Similarly, the  It's said that  Notice how most of the characters on the   The character may simply be well-written and interesting; people gravitate to such characters, hero or villain.

 In works with a This phenomenon doesn't relate solely to villains; heroes who commit morally dubious actions can also fall here, since we're supposed to sympathize with them from the start. However, the hero is supposed to reflect the reader's values more than the villains, which means that we hold our heroes to a higher standard and expect them to live up to it more than the villains, and can be harsher to judge them when they cross the line than we would a villain (who, being the villain, is kind of expected to do that anyway). This can, in extreme cases, lead to instances where a villain appears to be liked more than a hero, even if the hero's worst actions do not compare to the villain's. moral dissonance usually happens when we notice the jerkass tendencies of a hero, but the other characters don't appear to. what the hell, hero? occurs when the writers themselves notice and have other characters call the hero out on it.

                            