

Jews are, perhaps, the originators of the modern nerd stereotype. Why? Maybe their long, scholarly tradition, maybe their immigrant past (comparable to asian and nerdy and the bollywood nerd), maybe their overbearing education mamas, maybe for some other weird reason. But for whatever reason, you will rarely see a stupid Jewish character on TV (unless he or she is more of a ditzy genius or genius ditz).

This can, of course, bring up controversy as to what, exactly, constitutes a nerd, whether Jewish or otherwise. Is a nerd any extremely smart person, or an extremely smart person without social skills, or an extremely smart person without social skills and a grotesque appearance? Then, of course, there's the controversy over what makes a person Jewish: is it race, religion, or a certain cultural je ne sais quoi? Whatever the case, there have been many 'nerdy' people wearing eyeglasses who have been mistaken for Jews, and vice versa. (It sounds like a joke, but it did happen often in the past, so much that Arthur Miller actually wrote a play about the concept.) This can also lead to the unfortunate implication that every Jewish person is naturally a nerd, to the point that a Jew would have to stuff his face with beef jerky, scratch his ass, and guzzle down gallons and gallons of beer just to have a chance at proving this stereotype false.

Compare asian and nerdy and bollywood nerd, two other ethnic nerd stereotypes; and hollywood nerd for the general appearance. Contrast matzo fever and black and nerdy, both inversions of a more prevalent ethnic stereotype. Intelligence as a character trait may lead to instances of ambiguously jewish, thanks to this trope. Finally, contrast hipster, which often deals with Jewish or Ambiguously Jewish characters acting stereotypically 'cool.'

 Benny from  Billy Kaplan / "Wiccan" from  Gert(rude Yorkes) from  Kitty Pride from  Jessica Stein, from  Insert  All of the Jewish Harvard students in   While Egon Spengler from  The title character in  Joel Glicker (David Krumholtz) in   Subverted by Donald "Boone" Schoenstein (Peter Riegert) in   Butters (no, not   Simon Lewis from  Stanley Uris (from  Howard Wolowitz from  Willow Rosenberg from  Rachel Berry from  Seth Cohen from  Ross Geller from  The two nerdiest characters from  Robbie from  Annie Edison from  Barbara Brownstein from  Craig and Eric, the two nerds from  Felicity Smoak from  Mark Cohen from   The entire Emmerich family line from the  Ethan Siegal of    Mort Goldman, his wife Muriel, and their son Neil from  Professor John Frink of  Snot from  Inverted with Harold on  Ron Stoppable from  Sheldon Klutzberry from       Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of         Noam Chomsky

  Pennant-winning MLB general managers Jon Daniels, Theo Epstein and Andrew Friedman.

   Marcel Marceau could be an example, if you consider  Let's throw 