the hero has been taking a turn for the anti lately, exploring the dark side with the help of an evil mentor, learning anger, or generally indulging in less than heroic behavior or abilities.

On the way, their friends will try to stop them, but the hero will ignore them because they're enjoying themselves too much. They're this close to jumping off the slippery slope thanks to evil feels good and assorted perks to lapsing their morality, and just when it looks like they're about to kick the son of a bitch and give him what's coming to him, they either miss the intended target and hurt an ally by accident, or abruptly realize they're being an abject jerk ass and attacking someone who's trying to help them for no good reason.

They've just hit the nadir of this downward spiral and the start of their return to the straight and narrow. By hurting their friend, possibly the morality pet, love interest, or the chick for extra oomph, they do the one thing capable of prompting a heel realization before they do a full face-heel turn (or cement the turn, at least). Cue cries of "what have i done?!" and "what have i become?!?" while shedding tears of remorse and cradling their kill, they'll say they're sorry and try their hardest to resuscitate the dog they've just kicked.

If they weren't evil beforehand, whoever was inducing them to this behavior will quickly prove it by not turning back like the hero just has. They'll likely scold the hero for chickening out, and remark that evil does not spend its time petting bunnies (well, not during weekdays anyway). If powers are involved, expect them to go drunk on the darkside and/or one-winged angel.

Compare villainous bsod. Also, some may be too far gone for this trope to pull them back to their senses, which will result in either an ignored epiphany or the character displacing the guilt onto someone else. See also minor insult meltdown and moment of weakness. Not to be confused with kicking a dog that was too dangerous to kick, or kicking the son of a bitch.