The people of the planet of hats can adopt any of a thousand different hats as the one that their society values above all others. However, someone has to put on the "hat-maker" hat for the rest of the society to be able to wear their chosen hat. After all, klingon warriors will need scientists to design their weapons and starships. Yet, despite making the planet of hats possible, the Klingon scientists get no respect because they aren't on the battlefield swinging a bat'leth.

It's not just a case of where someone takes on a thankless job because someone has to do it, this trope is about culture. The Klingon Scientist is ostracized for having talents outside of what is approved by the culture regardless of them enabling their culture to function how they want it to in the first place. To further rub in the injustice, the Klingon Scientist probably neither believes my species doth protest too much nor yearns to be a cultural rebel. They may genuinely buy into their culture's values and knowingly choose the thankless job to support their people. That said, the scorn and alienation they experience no doubt tinge their world view into jade-colored glasses.

Despite the name, this trope can be expressed a lot of ways: a warrior culture may disdain the blacksmith who makes their weapons, a society of pure thinkers may consider all engineers menial laborers putting their high thoughts to work, while a people of artists could see those who produce their art materials as unskilled proles (and all of the above can even be reversed!). If this trope is part of an aesop, then vetinari job security will kick in when the oppressed Hat-Maker takes a holiday.

Compare to hard on soft science, where certain fields of study are mocked by more "serious" areas that may very well be connected or derived from them.

no real life examples, please! Since this trope deals heavily with racial and cultural stereotypes, examples from real-world countries and cultures would be loaded with unfortunate implications. Suffice it to say that every society has had at least one job that is looked down upon by the culture at large while still being entirely necessary for that society to function.

