Also known as lawful anal, these people may call themselves lawful neutral, or lawful good but they lean toward such rigid adherence to the law that anybody who breaks any law, anywhere, for any reason, is the enemy. even saying an unkind word to someone is an act of pure evil, and the Lawful Stupid can and will act as judge, jury, and executioner. That is why they are called Lawful Stupid, not lawful neutral or lawful evil.

Woe be to the fellow party member who fails to live up to their obsessive-compulsive standards. If the thief so much as jaywalks, Mr. Lawful Stupid will insist on turning him in to the "proper authorities" (regardless of what alignment said authorities are), or even execute him on the spot. Then he'll berate the other members of his party for "condoning" the thief's behavior, and may turn on them as well. This makes this guy highly irritating as well as stupid for turning in his only allies. For newbie DMs, the best solution is usually a blunt force object applied to the head of the offending character -- if not the player.

In tabletop roleplaying games, it's such a common behavior for paladins that it seems this is what everyone expects paladins to do these days. In fact, it's so common that the Dungeons & Dragons sourcebook Book of Exalted Deeds spends a good number of pages explaining how to be lawful neutral or lawful good without being a dimwit. The creators themselves got sick of it.

This trope is a Lawful character carrying the idiot ball because that is the Lawful thing to do. Remember, however, that tropes are not bad. When properly used, this trope can actually be used to add depth to a character rather than reduce them to a farce:

 A  A truly  When this behavior is caused by faith, belief makes you stupid is present. Compare and contrast chaotic stupid, stupid good, stupid evil, and stupid neutral, which are the Moral/Ethical Alignment Stupid equivalent tropes for Chaos, Good, Evil, and Neutral. the fundamentalist and knight templar usually fall under this alignment, and may eventually develop into tautological templar. A government under the caligula normally becomes Lawful Stupid, as history has shown. Worth noting, this is actually how lawful neutral was classically written, but it has since been redefined.

