

Whenever you see such a character... run. Far away. Where he or she walks, grass won't grow back.

This is the guy who, on getting out of bed in the morning, somehow manages to trigger a set of disaster dominoes that ends up blowing up his next door neighbor's house. After that, he'll swerve to avoid a squirrel on the commute to work, accidentally running a passing bus full of innocents off a cliff. When he gets there, he'll distractedly fire a nail gun straight into the forehead of the resident butt monkey, then, after lunch, flip his banana peel onto the floor right in the path of an elderly hemophiliac.

He'll never notice any of this. And while others are in the emergency room, he'll probably come out without so much as a scratch.

And what's that high-pitched screaming coming from under his car on the drive home? meh. probably the wind. Oh, did you see that pile of totaled cars a few blocks back? His is still pristine.

The sadist show is his natural habitat. He's been known to show up in crapsack worlds when they're played for laughs. Can lead to mistaken for badass when people are impressed with the results of his "work."

This trope is an exaggeration of the klutz, but unlike most, it's played for laughs far more often than for drama.

This trope is very close to lethally stupid, though in that case, the problems are caused by the character's idiocy, and not always his clumsiness.

It's the middle step between the jinx and mike nelson, destroyer of worlds. i just shot marvin in the face is a sub-trope. spanner in the works, doom magnet, and walking disaster area are sister tropes. For laughs, may turn out to be graceful in their element. See also the jinx.

 Fran of  Excel from   The title character of  The title character of   There was an episode of    In   Aperture Science can't build a calculator without it malfunctioning and killing dozens of  You have, of course, don't lie, done this before in a video game.

 Most characters on  Gavin Free is this in  In one episode of  Dethklok from      