Friends are great. Which is why having friends is often what separates the hero from the villain. An unfortunate and inevitable side-effect of the power of friendship is that if you don't have friends, there's something wrong with you, since being a loner is not "natural".

Similarly, if a writer is going to create a sympathetic anti-hero, they often choose to make the character a brooding and friendless loner. Introversion seems to get used much more often than other epic or humanizing flaws like pride, addiction, jealousy or lust. Perhaps this is because showing a complete lack of a social life as opposed to a self-destructive one is much easier to accomplish. A quick establishing shot of a character sitting alone in a social setting is an easy way to alert the audience that something isn't quite right.

Fiction also doesn't seem to draw a distinction between being asocial, and anti-social. A loner character usually is more than just socially awkward, they'll have a number of serious psychological issues too. arrogance, selfishness, and mental instability are all fairly common. At worst, they're portrayed as evil since their refusal to socialize is proof that others are not worthy of their presence and that the only person they could ever care about is themselves. right? When fiction doesn't make a distinction between being a loner by choice or being driven to it, this is the attitude at work.

Cultural norms can make this even worse. In Japan, hikikomori are seen as either neets gone over the edge, or lazy students cutting class rather than victims of a nearly-social darwinist society defined by ambition and fear of shame. rather than reaching out for help, the family is expected to isolate the weirdo from society and deal with the problem themselves.

Even more unfortunately, there is some historic basis for this; humans are social animals. Cooperation along with the invention of language is how we survived and those who were alone often weren't able to reproduce or hand over their innovations to the next guy. Through most of human history collective action was the only practical means of survival; being extremely selfish, hiding all the time, or being shunned/banned/exiled/cast out was very often a precursor to slow death by starvation and predation. Thus a person condemned to dying alone was almost certainly alone because of a problem he'd had fitting into another group and thus he should be avoided.

A loner can also become a freak through isolation. Humans learn how to be human through social interaction. And there are many social skills that can only be learned in person — isolation can lead to no social skills. When you're raised in isolation, you behave differently. Many psychological disorders originate from a deficit in human interaction. Then that person will be shunned, isolating him further in a vicious cycle, putting him closer to the despair event horizon.....

A more tragic explanation for this trope is that loners are simply expressing their true personalities (in this case, being a loner) by refusing to adapt to societal standards they don't like. This can be interpreted as being an act of rebellion by others when nothing deeper is really going on. Thus, many introverted people are assumed to be going through an immature stage or dismissed as having ulterior motives for their behavior that ends up just isolating them more.

Of course, this trope could just be the inversion of the idea that nobody could like a freak, so freaks are loners. This doesn't logically translate to all loners are freaks, but a lot of fiction doesn't follow logic.

In idealistic works concerning this trope, the all-loving hero will often affect a heel-face turn on an antagonist by trying to be their friend. Often this will work by itself, hammering home the idea that what's wrong with the villain isn't the need for revenge or a severely unbalanced psyche, it's a lack of friends. Even if The all-loving hero eventually accepts the Loner as a Loner, the Loner will often appreciate the effort, and begin making token attempts to be sociable with the true companions.

It's hard to determine whether this trope originated from assumptions about loners in the real world or helped cause it...or whether that's another vicious cycle.

There are exceptions, as with all other tropes: the crusty old hermit or witch doctor who rebuffs the villains and helps out the heroes is a fairly popular stock character. And both of those are frequently portrayed at the very least as eccentric. The misunderstood loner with a heart of gold is a subversion. the snark knight deliberately seeks to defy this trope.

And, as Freaks proved, loners may be freaks, but freaks aren't loners.

Compare the complainer is always wrong and perhaps intelligence equals isolation. Contrast you are not alone. See also no social skills.

