Love is something best given freely, not demanded; it's something that has to be earned and worked at to keep alive, not a one sided entitlement. However, the love hungry character didn't get the memo. They are so insecure, greedy, and/or starved of affection, they don't care: they want absolute, unconditional, and perpetual love, and feel that the ends justify the means. They won't settle for being merely loved by others, but in having their love enslaved to always do so. Even a genuinely kind person may become Love Hungry by being broken by fear of losing their love, anger at rejection, jealousy for another's love, or a narcissistic desire to be the most loved.This character may try to gain love through sabotaging other's relationships, deception, manipulation, propaganda, or even murder. If they lack this finesse or get really desperate, they may kidnap the person(s) that they want to love them and try to create stockholm syndrome. Of course, this tragic dream usually gets the opposite result, with the target becoming angry or fearful and rejecting the Love Hungry. The presence of magic and powers usually means that love is in the air, charm person, and glamours will be used to create this forced love.

This plot usually has an aesop about not forcing others to love you, and many characters who try this regret doing so before long and return wiser to the status quo. If they don't, it usually means they'll do a face-heel turn before long.

Compare yandere, who is violent about keeping their lover. Compare all take and no give, where the taker tries to force someone into loving and serving them. See also love makes you evil and love makes you crazy. Relate to happiness is mandatory and getting smilies painted on your soul, where happy emotions are forced on others. For a more literal take, see emotion eater. For a non-villainous version, see i just want to be loved. See also dogged nice guy.

 In the backstory material for  Greg in  Oonagi in  In the second half of  In  In  Anakin Skywalker in  In  Rare, heroic example - The Child-Goddess Aphrael from  In  In   One of the vignettes in  In  Amical from   On one episode of  In the  Poor Robin. When he was forced to escort the spoiled brat Kitten to Junior Prom in 