Have you ever been so annoyed with life you just want to forget about "civilized" culture and become a darker me? or a different you? the kind of person who couldn't care less about social conventions and went about exacting disproportionate (but poetic) retribution?

Well in fiction, some characters do get that bothered.

Start with a nice guy, maybe even a deadpan snarker, or any character who plays by society's rules. Mix with frustration, add a dash of romantic rejection, put in the oven to 300 degrees angstius for a few years, months, weeks, or in some cases days (Indeed, the time to completion varies a lot by the main ingredient's willpower) and voilá! You now have a man or woman who has been maddened into misanthropy.

What comes next is usually pretty fun. They will systematically deconstruct the parts of modern living, culture, work, and their own life that they dislike, and rebuild these relationships from their end into something workable (again, for them). They will reject conventions like white lies, saying exactly what they feel and think. They will not dress to expectation, going unkempt, wearing only things that are comfortable, or switching to a highly unique personal style. If someone annoys them, they won't bother acknowledging their presence. If they try to pester the misanthrope they won't hesitate to tell them exactly how much of a scrappy they are. If the misanthrope dislikes them enough or outright hates them, they will use threats or slapstick level physical comedy to subdue or chase them off. They won't kill anyone, but likely because they now have such an efficient way of venting their anger they either don't get that angry anymore, or don't stay angry long enough to cause them stress.

It's not all an ego trip, though. They may act like a jerk ass, but they'll often be just as unrestrained in their positive impulses and aspects, seeing no reason not to do a nice thing for someone they like, such as helping them to release their own inner fears and limitations, or even "teaching them" that they can ignore social convention every once in a while. If they have been pining for someone, they will now proceed to confidently and unconventionally romance them.

Interestingly, they will only get mildly rejected for this behavior. Lifelong friends will be weirded out by the change, but nonetheless happy for their friend's newfound assertiveness and happiness. Of course, since they don't usually cause stress they will avoid the sharp end of this knife. love interests who are shrewish will be horrified away, while those who were oblivious to them now take notice. While the pointy-haired boss will want to fire them, his bosses will find his attitude refreshing and promote him up against the annoying middle-manager's wishes.

They do seem to temper this anti-social behavior some by movie's end, though often never completely. One thing is certain, they now live life without regrets.

Related to beneath the mask. woobie, destroyer of worlds is usually less fun than this. Compare the mirror morality machine. has nothing to do with madden nfl. well, at least not for most of us... See also did you think i can't feel?