If you ask someone a question, and he gives you an entirely accurate answer that is of no practical use whatsoever, he has just given you a Mathematician's Answer.

A common form of giving a Mathematician's Answer is to fully evaluate the logic of the question and give a logically correct answer. Such a response may prove confusing for someone who interpreted what they said colloquially.

Examples include questions involving "can you do [favor]...?" being interpreted as a hypothetical "are you capable of doing [favor]?" instead of its more common intent as a request to actually do it (this is a favorite of English teachers and grammar nazis, frequently going through something similar to "Can I come in?" "I don't know, can you?" "Uh, may I come in?") Another common form is when a character is asked "Is it A or B?" they will respond, "Yes" as if it was a question of Boolean logic rather than clarifying which specific one is the case (though this can also occur if the responder does not know the answer, or considers both answers correct. This crops up a lot in real life, especially in the world of computers.) A third variant is when a question beginning with "How" (being asked in the sense of "By what means does X occur?") is answered with an adverb or adverbial phrase (responding as if the question had been "In what manner does X occur?"). For example: "How did you get past the guards?" "With difficulty."

Can be used by characters for reasons ranging from snarky humor to intentional obfuscation to being extremely literal-minded — AI and other literal genies by their nature are very likely to fall into the last category.

Can overlap with shaped like itself when the question is seeking a description, and with captain obvious, as these answers tend to be self-evident for anyone with a brain. Usually doubles as a cryptically unhelpful answer, when the "mathematician" is deliberately trying to confound the questioner. Compare non-answer, which is a vague "answer" which does not answer the question at all. Mildly related to what's a henway? and not actually the ultimate question. And don't forget that the person giving the Mathematician's Answer is "technically correct... the best kind of correct."The trope name comes from a family of jokes about the supposed habit of mathematicians to make unhelpful answers. For example: a man in a hot-air balloon asked someone where he was. "You're in a balloon," he answered. The rider concluded that it was a mathematician that said that, because the answer was perfectly correct and completely useless. (The joke sometimes continues with the mathematician deducing the man in the balloon is a manager, because he has risen to his position with a lot of hot air, has no idea where he is or where he is going, and yet claims this is the fault of the innocent person standing below him.)

all of them is a subtrope that's its own stock phrase. See also what's a henway?. Contrast implied answer when the question isn't answered at all, and the meaning is quite clear.

Compare with non-answer.

