

A trope in which, the less human or normal looking an enemy or monster is, the weaker or less effective that enemy will be, whereas less monstrous foes will be deadlier and more powerful. If all foes are humans, then you can see this in body type instead: fatter or bigger fighters will be less powerful than thinner characters.

This is mostly due to the fact that writers seem to think viewers associate monstrous figures with being strong but mindless and stupid, and thus use less monstrous forms for more effective villains. Even if that villain has a monstrous final form, he will usually be seen in his humanoid form for most of the time, his other form essentially existing only as an excuse to allow them to die. This may also be because humanoid villains become characters with distinct personalities, while the more monstrous ones are less versatile outside a fight. Thus, they tend to be mooks, monster of the week or the one-winged angel form of a villain who appears humanoid for most of the series. Often justified in-story by the notion that the inhuman beings prefer to seem human for whatever reason, and that the more powerful or skilled ones can do so more successfully.

Humanoid in this case being two legs, two arms (though arms are one of the few things that some can get away with), one head and relatively normal proportions. Also, a relatively "normal" face as well.

Compare what measure is a non-human? and humanity is superior. See also bishonen line, a sub-trope of this, where a single character eventually becomes more human-like as they gain power, or clipped wing angel, the exact opposite. This is usually the flaw in a shape shifter mashup. It also occasionally overlaps with the worf effect, with enormous, monstrous enemies existing mostly to be cut down, to show that not even such amazing brute strength is any match for whoever is fighting it. There is considerable overlap with monster lord. Contrast with another opposite, the power-upgrading deformation, where progressive deformations raise a being's strength.

