This character loves nature.

Whether living in the countryside or city, this character opts for many picnics or long walks in the wilderness, or else fascinated inspection of animals and plants about; the character sometimes lives in the wild. Extensive knowledge of animals and plants is common. Prone to the world is just awesome both as a character trait and as something to reveal to others. Trapped in the city, he will often be seen in any park or just watching the sunset.

Usually a sign of Goodness, indicating a wholesome character uncorrupted by the vice city. Mostly a modern trope, found where most members of the audience live in cities and do not have to wrestle with nature's dangers and inconveniences regularly.

arcadia may suffice for natural settings — all that greenery — though sometimes it is not wild enough, and the ghibli hills are required for the character's taste. When it does suffice, the character often has a green thumb.

This does not require the character to exert himself — mountain climbing, or canoing, etc — though outdoors sports are popular with many Nature Lovers. Walks, picnics, and even just hanging out may be all that's required. Hunting is also possible, particularly in older works, but the Nature Lover is seldom the egomaniac hunter. Compare outdoorsy gal.

The friend to all living things is a subtrope with a magical fillip, and the nature hero is a subtrope where the character is definitely resident in the wild and so used to it as to have few social skills.

 In   In  Kristoff's character bio in  Julie Baker in  Amadahy Love in Dying Embers by  Freckles in   Dan in  Cassie in  In  In   Radagast the Brown in  In  In   In   In  In  In  Both Ivy Carson and Martha Abbott rescue animals throughout Zilpha Keatley Snyder's  In  In  Shallan Davar in  Subverted in a sketch on  Oliver Wendell Douglas from  In  A Signature Trope of the  Gerald Manley Hopkins

 In    In  "Loves the Outdoors" is among the traits a Sim can have in  In  Interest in nature appears to be a good sign in  In  In  Norway in  In  Fluttershy from   Nat Smurf in  