A Nerd is someone who... actually, it is easier to describe a nerd as what they are not. Not smooth, not handsome, and not someone you would instantly describe as 'attractive'. Not, above all else, popular outside a very narrow grouping of fellow-nerds. They are oftentimes a walking, talking fashion-disaster. One definition of a nerd is someone who not only didn't attend his high school prom, but would be puzzled or even offended at the suggestion that he would want to. most nerds portrayed in the media actually fail this test, but real-life nerd joss whedon passes.

The term gets conflated with geek fairly frequently, as it happens that a nerd can be fairly obsessive/informed about a particular topic. The nerdiest nerd is a nerd who isn't even a geek.

One of the odd features of the nerd on TV is that they will be over-formally dressed (probably as a result of the hollywood dress code) usually, at least a plaid polo shirt and slacks. In fact, in real life, both nerds and geeks tend to dress more casually than the average person, because they usually don't care as much about clothes or appearances. The hyper-formality is likely due to another stigma - that nerds let their parents dress them. There sure are some nerds whose clothes would fit the stereotype, though.

A nerd is typically portrayed as a pasty, weak, scrawny, guy or gal with nerd glasses and/or a nerdy inhaler. They are bullied by the jocks, cannot spit it out if a member of the opposite sex is anywhere within range, and are working on odd projects in their basements and garages. Geek girls (and some guys) will have super frizzy hair, if it's not done up in girlish pigtails (the girls, not the guys). They may also be obese, instead of scrawny.

These are the nerd stereotypes that were most prevalent in the 70s and 80s, the ones that feature in movies like Revenge of the Nerds, the sort that Bill Gates and Steve Jobs looked like back in the day. ...Okay, Gates still looks kinda like that, but he's a billionaire now, wanna make something of it? You would think the nerds ruling the world nowadays would make this a discredited trope, but there's enough truth in television to geek physiques to keep this one running.

Like with geek, the definition of a nerd is not set in stone and can vary greatly depending on context. For instance, Fonzie’s earliest uses of the term implied somebody who was average and middle class, in contrast to his own streetwise survival and fighting skills. Dr. Seuss’ nerd was a nonsensical (and grouchy-looking) animal in his zoo.

See also geek, asian and nerdy, black and nerdy, hollywood nerd. Contrast nerdcore. Related to i just want to have friends when the nerd wants to be more popular. If you're looking for the musical about Bill Gates and Steve Jobs, it's at: nerds.

