

Jewish boys are generally nice guys, or at least can be relied on being so when they're the centre piece or critical element of a given work of fiction. So are ambiguously jewish ones. They also tend to be self-deprecating, studious, and brainy. Although he may still love to argue, even when he's arguing, you can still tell he's nice. It's reasonably likely he's a cheapskate, but he's probably not actually greedy. They're usually adorkable, because this is a quality favored in Jewish culture as an ideal husband: smart, reliable, and gentle, with a boyish charm.

Even though nice Jewish boys are quite likely to cause matzo fever, a character referred to as "a nice Jewish boy" tends to be unmarried — he's often referred to as "a nice Jewish boy" by his domineering Jewish Mother, who wants him to get married and give her grandchildren and is advertising his niceness. jewish mothers may also ask their daughters to find one of these, or indeed their sons to find "a nice Jewish girl."

the other wiki has an article about the "Nice Jewish boy".

 Zig-zagged by Benny from  Dan Dreiberg, from  Ted Kord, the  Billy/"Wiccan" in  Peter Parker aka Spider-Man was sometimes thought to be this due to his very pronounced feelings of guilt and domination by his surrogate mother Aunt May, especially as his creator  The Rebbe's son in  Ben Stiller in   The main character in  David Levinson of  Paulie Bleeker in  Lindermann in  David Kessler in  Rabin in the  Reuven Malter in  Sent up in  Simon from    Charlie Eppes, from  Largely wanted by  On  Howard on  Brian Krakow on My So-Called Life.

 David "Gordo" Gordon on  Chase Matthews on  Robbie Shapiro on  Hilariously subverted on the UK version of  Josh from  It isn't often mentioned in  Matt Parkman, from  On  Sheldon in  Sol Star on  Zachary Ezekiel Rosenblatt Beekerman, also known as Zeke, from  Jeremy on  Ross Geller of   Collaborator  In  While almost everyone in  Mark Cohen in  In  Pasha Moskowitz on  Ferris from  Joseph from  Tommy Pickles from     T.J. Detweiler from  Dipper in  Arnold Perlstein on   In the  In   Chaim Weisman

  Abba Eban

 Jake Gyllenhaal (mother is Jewish)

         Children's authors Maurice Sendak, Eric Carle, and   Danny Avidan, of 