In fiction, you can usually tell the good guys from the bad guys by the way they treat the working class. If the characters in question are aristocrats, the evil lords and ladies will treat their serfs and servants badly, while the good bluebloods will smile, treat them respectfully and make sure their working conditions are acceptable. If the work is set in the modern day, good characters will tip waitresses and know the names of their doorman or the guy at the newsstand, while bad guys stiff the waiter and treat the cable guy like a slave. In super hero works, especially badass normal ones, something person may be a rich idiot with no day job, but his employees smile at him on the rare occasion he shows up — he's a scatterbrained benevolent boss, not a forgetful tyrant. The exception is the affably evil villain, who can say hello to his receptionist and buy her lunch hours before murdering her entire family.

In situations of more importance, the good man will disclaim credit for good work actually performed by subordinates, while the bad one will hog it. Conversely, the bad man will shove off blame, while the good one will accept, sometimes even when it is not really his fault (because he was in charge, or because their disparate status means his punishment will be less severe).

There's an interesting real life dynamic to this trope. It's become accepted wisdom that you can tell a lot about the man or woman you're dating by the way they treat the person waiting on them. This isn't bad advice, but it's become so well-worn that it's probably hard to trust that the person in question is really that polite to the server. At this point, if you're rude to the waiter in the presence of the person you're dating, you probably want to get dumped. (As such, look at who your date thinks s/he can get away with mistreating. Everybody considers somebody their inferior.)

And don't forget self-interest. You can put yourself in a bad place by angering the almighty janitor. Fail to tip the guys at curbside check-in and you're likely to find yourself wondering how one of your bags ended up in Argentina while the other is in Zaire. Insult your waiter and you might end up with high urine levels in your soup. And many an investigator has discovered that the servants know their masters' dirty little secrets — it can make all the difference in the world whether they gleefully reveal everything or loyally keep their mouths shut.

This trope probably sprung up out of sympathy or even wish fulfillment. Writing isn't known as a particularly lucrative career except for a very few skilled/lucky people, so until they get published a lot of writers have to work a "real" job, which could well be something humble and ill-paid. What's the point of being an author if you can't reward those who are kind to lowly workers and punish those who harm them?

A subtrope of pet the dog (or kick the dog when the person is rude to the waiter), often used to show hidden depths.

Contrast with the self-serving professional butt-kisser, who often reveals him- or herself as a bitch in sheep's clothing once the bosses aren't around. See also we have reserves for a specific and military aversion, and the dog bites back for why more villains should take this seriously. This often results in laser-guided karma or i ate what?. From the point of view of the servants, this may lead to no hero to his valet. Somewhat related to what you are in the dark (a good indicator of your character is how you treat those you think incapable of retaliation).

