Pushing a new character into the spotlight via character derailment of the character that they're replacing. dying to be replaced seems merciful and dignified by comparison. At least that way you're dead, or comfortably converted to the dark side, before someone starts messing around with your job.

The "victim" who was dying to be replaced is moved out of the way, but the victim who is not as you know them is expected to stick around and suffer. Not only have they lost their old title, it's usually through circumstance rather than their own fault. Unfortunately, whatever happened to them has transformed their personality - generally into something more jaded. They're still there in the story, they're still (usually) on the side of good... but for all intents and purposes, it may as well be a different character. They often become a cynical version of the obi-wan to the new hero, who, of course, is much better at their job than they ever were.

It's a trick that writers use to keep people tuned in to the show/playing the video game/reading the books when they decide to switch protagonists. Rather than risk starting all over again with a new character, the writers use the old hero as a hook to lure in the "old faithfuls" in the audience. Unfortunately, many fans have become wise to this ploy and view such sequels with some trepidation. It's a bit of a Catch-22 - do you avoid knowing your favorite character's fate, or find out what happened to him, at the risk of realizing that you don't particularly like what's happened to him?

So why do a character assassination on an old favorite? Well, if the returning character was as lovable as (s)he originally was, the viewers' familiarity with them means that audience allegiance would remain firmly on their side... even when they're going against the new hero. That's not what the writer wants — they want you to follow the new guy, so the returnee is demoralized to alienate them from the viewers/readers. However, this can backfire if the viewers resent the newcomer already, just for being a "usurper", and then find insult added to injury when they find their original, amiable hero has become grumpy and surly in the gap between series.

The quickest way to figure out if a character has become not as you know them is to ask yourself "if their physical appearance was completely different, and I wasn't told exactly who they were, would I have figured it out or assumed they were a new character?"

As is always the case with character derailment tropes, not as you know them can be fairly subjective; there will be those who hate the changes and declare fanon discontinuity, and those who like them and cite character development (albeit character development that happened "off screen").

