

A subtrope of fake ultimate hero.

In a world with the masquerade, especially of the urban fantasy genre, people can be divided mainly as follows: Those that know what's going on, those that don't know what's going on, and those that think they know what's going on. Now, add some power and some involvement to the latter two kinds of people and you may get several results.

One of them is the not-so-phony psychic. The not-so-phony psychic is a person that thinks they know what's going on and/or thinks they know what to do about it. They don't. And they somehow have the power to make the mistakes that ensue. Sometimes the not-so-phony psychic makes money off their "talents" - by screwing up, and badly, on national television, or at the very least by screwing up in private while thinking he's a great hero, or that he's cheating people (by screwing up for money).

Mind, the not-so-phony psychic isn't usually a quack (though sometimes he THINKS he is). He usually thinks he's doing it right, it's just that he doesn't know it better. Alternatively, the not-so-phony psychic may well think he's cheating people off their money when he actually does dabble in the occult (and screws up). The "Holy crap, it was REAL?" look on their faces is usually priceless.

The usual formula for a not-so-phony psychic intro episode is as follows: The heroes meet him due to his celebrity status or by coincidence. They find out he's doing it wrong on national T.V. or by accident when they see him "at work". They join him and fix his screw-ups, sometimes explaining how and why. And the not-so-phony psychic is enlightened - usually meaning he'll still make money, but won't screw up anymore. The not-so-phony psychic will sometimes remain in the show, sometimes aiding the heroes for what little it usually is worth. Sometimes it is worth way more, though, specifically when they use their fame or resources to help the heroes.

Compare magicians are wizards.

 Don Kan'Onji, from  The first arc of  Yakumo Saito in  In  Robert James Lees in  Oda Mae Brown in  Frank Bannister from    Sybill Trelawney, from  A minor but recurring character in  In  Marjorie Potts, AKA Madame Tracy, in   In  In Dead Eye: Pennies For The Ferryman, the main character gets a cornea transplant from one of these. The person has the main host of a bad youtube    On Third-Doctor era  On   Invoked in  On  One episode of 