Deep in mordor, at the top of the evil tower of ominousness, the evil overlord awaits. He has his legion of doom, the artifact of doom and any other doomy dooms of doom you can think of. His power is vast and he is poised to strike and destroy all we hold dear at any moment.

Any moment now.

Aaaaaany moment...

Looks like we have a case of Orcus On His Throne. A villain with great power and the potential to wipe out the Forces of Good turns out to be an awfully retiring sort. Sure, he's out there somewhere being evil, probably oppressing someone else, but he doesn't actually seem to do much; he just sits about resting on his laurels or at most maintaining an active training regimen, waiting for the heroes to come and overthrow him. One wonders how he ever mustered the ambition to climb to his position of power in the first place.

This is the very reason games like Super Mario Bros. even exist. If the big bad is coming, why not just wait and prepare yourself? But if the big bad is sitting by his Lava Pit of Doom, for whatever reason, just waiting for the Hero to arrive, then of course the Hero has to make his way all the way there.

Named for an unfortunate line in the Third Edition Dungeons & Dragons Manual of the Planes, where it mentioned that Orcus, the lord of the undead, might once more be on his throne, one bony hand clutching his terrible rod. The original justification for this was based in the way Dungeons And Dragons works; by not having Orcus (or any other given major villain) actively doing anything, but prepared to strike out against the forces of good, the dungeon masters who were buying the source books and playing the game could have the villains do whatever they wanted or needed them to do for their custom-built campaigns.

Villainous counterpart to take your time. A very common trope in video games, where the villain waits passively in his throne room while the hero is leveling up, killing his minions, storming the castle, occupying each base and methodically foiling his plans. Similar to offstage villainy, where we only know the villain is evil because the author says so; with Orcus On His Throne, we only know the villain is dangerous because the author says so.

Possibly justified, since maintaining order in one's domain can be a really time consuming task, what with all those rebel scum, stupid henchmen, backstabbing lieutenants, and the other daily tasks an evil overlord has to face everyday. Not to mention that any tactician will endorse the benefits of a fortified position surrounded by your most powerful servants. Then again, what kind of evil overlord doesn't take the time to smell the roses, pillage a village, and give a hero a good final boss preview every once in a while? They deserve a little "me" time, too!

Tactically speaking, this can be wiser than you might think. The big bad might well have specialised in siege warfare. If said villain has almost already won, and simply needs to kill the hero, then it makes a lot more sense to simply wait for the hero to show up at the villain's evil tower of ominousness, where the villain can then enjoy a home field advantage.

The big bad might also be spending all his/her/its time offscreen searching for a plot coupon (lost superweapon, artifact of doom, etc.) that would render conventional means of conquest unnecessary. Why waste time and effort commanding the legion of doom when you could conquer/corrupt/destroy the kingdom/country/world/galaxy/universe with the push of a button? When they do get off their throne, expect them to be a mobile menace. Still, it's easier to send their minions out to do this instead, which is probably another reason they never have to leave the castle. In the case of a non-action big bad, the villain acts like this because personally, they don't have power, or at least not the sort that would be useful in direct combat, and they primarily work through their subordinates.

Compare not-so-omniscient council of bickering. Contrast royals who actually do something and frontline general. The opposite of this is risking the king. Not to be confused with - though principally very similar to - bigger bad.

See also the pawns go first for when the big bad chooses to let his minions fight a particular battle for a while before intervening.

There's more to this story, but first — We Wait.

