

Jobs can tell us a lot about a person, but the fact is that very few jobs really showcase our true colours. Some of us will be lucky enough to snag that legendary "dream job," but most of us work because we have to, and that can mean anything from slapping a grin on our face when dealing with a customer we secretly wish we could disembowel with a teaspoon, to accepting a job well below our ability level because we need to pay the rent.

Our hobbies, however, can say a lot more about what we like and what qualities/skills we possess; after all, they're totally voluntary, and we may even be prepared to spend a lot of money in order to do something we enjoy. This is echoed in the media, where the mention of a character's favourite pastimes can provide a shorthand for their personality.

The weird thing is, once this hobby is revealed, a character's social circle tends to disregard everything they previously knew (or supposed) about their friend. If the girl next door is revealed to be a kickboxer at the weekends, her associates will instantly assume that she's only "pretending" to be a wholesome sweetheart and is actually an action girl. On the other hand, if the school bully is revealed to attend piano lessons three times a week, he can expect a sudden upturn in his romantic success, as the ladies decide that his unexpected musical talent proves that he's a sensitive soul at heart, and hides it beneath a thuggish exterior. Given enough time, flanderization may ensue to the point that the pastime becomes the entire point of the character, and scenes with the character before their pastime was revealed may feel out of place.

If, on the other hand, the hobby is introduced as the same time a character is — for example, "Hey guys, meet Marie, we met at the sci-fi convention last week" — it's the viewer who knows what to expect in terms of personality. Sometimes this will be exploited in an aesop about not jumping to conclusions, especially if the person whose hobby is being mentioned is a main character. If they're a one-shot or side character, however, don't expect too many surprises; writers seldom spend time on revealing the complexities of a minor character's psychology, and are usually quite happy to let the stereotype stand.

Occasionally, the hobby will provide a "punchline" for the character because it is completely at odds with their personality. This may lend them credibility, as in the case of the nerd who's also a skateboarder, or be a bit of an achilles' heel, as with the alpha bitch with an astonishingly large collection of comic books.

In real life, a hobby's demographic encompasses all sorts of personality types...but the world of fiction normally prefers to keep things simple, so the stereotypes endure. However, works where the writers really did do the research — or where the pastime itself is an integral part of the story — will be much more sympathetic.

Also worth noting is the fact that the associations and connotations of both hobby and stereotype will vary from place to place.

Sports:As a general rule, an interest in sports indicates athleticism, charisma, competitiveness and enthusiasm. Most sports will be seen as a male domain, and any woman entering into them will be part of a you go girl storyline. However, a few sports will be seen as ladylike and feminine, implying quiet strength, gracefulness and determination rather than the supposedly "masculine" attributes listed above.

           Combat Sports / Martial ArtsWhile in a pre-modern setting partaking of recreational combat will be seen as the absolute proof of being a real man, in the modern world fighting is viewed as a semi-barbaric pastime, crude and denotative of a violent personality. Combative hobbies are often used to exhibit the character's inner fire, and symbolic of their fighting spirit, whether they be a business executive or a schoolgirl. A fighting hobby indicates a self-sufficient or independent personality. If a fist-oriented sport, will always be shown as a way to relieve stress.

      Due to the preponderance of martial arts in East Asian popular culture the type of martial art taken as a hobby is usually reflective of the person's character.

ArtsThere's an unfortunate assumption in the media that if you weren't able to make your artistic hobby into a career, it's because you simply weren't good enough. Most of the hobbies listed below have a "thwarted artiste" element to them. The fact that some people simply want to keep their hobby as a beloved pastime rather than a stress-inducing job is usually overlooked. Even if it isn't, being "artistic" is synonymous with being an impractical dreamer. Children, however, can draw or write to their heart's content: they're allowed to dream, and it's often implied that this talent will eventually become their job. Arts are usually split evenly between men and women, although they're probably more "acceptable" hobbies for women (since most of the men who undertake them will get paid to do so...)

    IntellectualPuzzlers, gamers, tech-heads...call them what you will, people who undertake these hobbies like to think. Like the artists, they're normally pretty introverted, but they're happy to brag about their I.Q. if asked. their physique suffers for their sedentary nature though, and these folk aren't usually physically strong. Some may even be adverse to daylight/going outside, although they usually have a support group in the form of their chosen subculture.

      MiscellaneousSome people just defy categorization...

      Troping.