This trope describes one of the most common forms of utopia: a society, nation, or world that has ascended so far beyond petty divisiveness that everyone is a pacifist living in peace and harmony.

This is generally a starting point for stories; either someone's bored of the sugar bowl life and wants to overthrow it, or invaders think it's ripe for conquest, or the protagonist discovers an awful truth about it. Needless to say, such a setting is easy pickings for author tracts and strawman political characters.

This trope can be either played straight or subverted. When played straight, the Perfect Pacifist People will be actual pacifists, shunning all physical violence even when their society is threatened. In these cases, a common plot point is for a character to learn the ways of war (so he can teach it to his people), or find others to do the fighting for them.Subversions happen when the pacifist utopia isn't perfect. Perhaps they're pacifists in name only who have no qualms fighting outsiders, or it's a façade for the elites, with lesser citizens relegated to a dystopia beneath the earth. Or perhaps they preach and (non-violently) enforce pacifism at the price of any individuality whatsoever. Or, if they aren't planning on blaming human nature and ending free will, they'll try to enforce the peace through fear of the law, and seek to make other people subservient to that law by suppressing their actions, without holding any value for the lives of others; they'd likely be the type to condemn emotion as a weakness, failing to perceive or comprehend any meaning within another person's life.

It's worth noting that the utopian society described in Plato's The Republic both subverts this trope and plays it straight. The Republic has a general pacifist attitude, but its citizens are ready to fight if necessary; on the other hand, it's not above hiring mercenaries from its neighbours as well, both to defend the Republic and to weed out their most violent members.

Also see rousseau was right (which believes that such a future is inevitable), crystal spires and togas, no poverty and mary suetopia. May overlap with veganopia. crapsaccharine world is the trope for utopias that aren't what they seem.

See also city in a bottle, space elves and more specifically proud scholar race guy (Type I), which is a sister trope.

