

Often, when there's a superhero team, their powers will reflect their personalities with the most blatant symbolism possible. Someone with sun or light-based powers will be optimistic and sunny, while someone with moon or night-based powers will border on moody and dark.

Mystical characters may have this as part of their super hero origin; the moon spirits seek out those who are dark and moody, or having all that moon energy in your body makes you dark and moody. But this is rare; often, it just happens that the optimistic and sunny guy is the one who gets caught in the freak lab accident involving concentrated solar power.

This trope is too convenient to be a notably discredited trope. As a result, it is almost as common for superheroes to have the exact opposite personality that one would expect, with sun guy being dark and night guy being happy. It's much rarer to simply ignore the trope and make the powers truly random, so they don't coincide or contrast with anybody's personality.

If you count mythology, and godly portfolios as powers, this is older than feudalism. Greek mythology, with its very human gods, is probably the most blatant, with the sun god Helios being inspiring and alive, while his sister, the moon goddess Selene, is aloof and solitary, and so on for most of the other gods. Of course, these are justified; the Greco-Roman gods were incarnations of that which they represented.

This can, of course, be a chicken/egg thing. If a person has a set of abilities long enough, it can influence their personality. In other cases, their personality is what influences the powers they get.

Elements: In a world with elemental powers, superheroes match their element's behavior. An earth-based hero is stubborn and sober, a water-based hero is flexible and ever-changing, a fire-based hero is impulsive and hot-headed, and so on.

Shapeshifting: People with voluntary shapeshifting are almost always tricksters, using their many forms to good advantage. (This, too, goes straight back to mythology.) Of course, this is one of the more justified chicken/egg scenarios, as if you did have shape-shifting powers, this is the kind of thing you would do. Similarly, those with involuntary shapeshifting, or who only shift to a specific form, will exhibit the personality characteristics associated with that form.

Wizards: In a superhero tale where magic and high technology co-exist, a magic user is deadly serious, pompous, creepy, or all three. Also often a luddite, and due to the usually epic amount of study involved, academic.

Telepathy: Somebody who reads or controls minds comes in two flavors. Heroes will be wise, and almost mystically philosophical (if they aren't actual monks). the face of the group will have something like this. Villains will be manipulative, crafty, and probably a control freak. (Strangely, a villain who relies on mind control rarely gets lazy and unused to manipulating people the old-fashioned way.)

Animals: People with animal-based powers often look or act like that animal before they got the powers — or more frequently, like that animal is often used symbolically.

Electricity: A character whose powers have a modern feel will often be volatile and touchy. The most recent examples often resemble a playful hacker, possessing machines with the same spirit hackers break into them. (This does not apply to lightning users with a more mystical feel. They tend to be straitlaced types, with an attitude like a king, or at least a knight in shining armor.) Villainous electricity users, however, tend to be a little...different.Musclemen: A character whose only power is being big and tough will be dumber than a bag of rocks. If they're good, they're doggedly loyal and probably inspirationally disadvantaged.

If they're evil, they're bullies and thugs. While this is turned around as often as any of the other personality powers, a smart muscleman is particularly likely to surprise people in the story.

Super Speedsters: Impatient, twitchy, impulsive, and brash. Brag more than anyone, like a drag racer or old-time motorhead. Frequently explained (as with Marvel's quicksilver and DC's Bart Allen) as a side effect of the fact that the character's super-speed makes the rest of the world seem very slow by comparison. In other words, a male speedster is usually a keet, a female is a genki girl.

: Ninja-like personality, subdued action, hushed tone, love of surprises.

Time Travel: Anyone who can move through time is usually airy and disconnected, often saying that they can use their knowledge of the future to "do no wrong". Expect them to be above good and evil if they're adept at controlling the past to suit their whims.

Generating Shields: Those with shielding powers tend to be a kind, caring person, and at least a technical pacifist if not an actual pacifist.

Emitting Poisons: Anyone who is made of poison/toxic waste/diseases will be a very lonely, petty, and cruel person with a cutting tongue.Flying Brick: Superman expys being what they are their personality can come in a variety of flavors (mainly revolving around being waaay better than everyone else). You have the typical role model hero that is looked up to by everyone in the world and is near-perfect. Indeed this is such a well-known combination that subversions and deconstructions that are depicted as arrogant , god-like, and evil have become just as wide-spread and well-known. Regardless of being good or evil, having arguably the most versatile and best powerset will make damn near anyone into a smug superSide Powers: There are a few powers that are very common, like flying or being big and tough. If these are not the only powers the superhero has, the common powers have no relevance to their personality whatsoever.

Compare planet of hats, transformation conventions. See Also astonishingly appropriate appearance. Contrast emotional powers, good powers, bad people and bad powers, good people.

