Just as a chessboard indicates a smart character and golf clubs indicate an upper-crust executive, a quick way to establish a character's frivolous personality is to show him having a pinball machine or arcade video game in a home, work, or personal environment. Such a character will typically be almost always male, and is either the slacker, a man child, one of the kids, a cloudcuckoolander, or something comparable.

Since a good-condition machine typically costs more than a personal computer, such a prop establishes some level of wealth for the owner; having multiple machines serves to further emphasize the character's extravagance or misguided priorities, especially if he's already financially challenged. Actually playing with the game is not required; simply having it in the background flashing its attract mode is enough to make the point.

Sometimes, in order to establish a character as the smart guy as well as one of the above traits, it'll turn out that he built or restored the machine himself. Lots of hacker caves have one of these in the background somewhere. (truth in television; mame-based replica cabinets are a popular project for electronics hobbyists.)

if the game is actually based on the character, that could be a further sign of extraordinary wealth or an overinflated ego.

Note that this trope does not apply when the game in question is in a location that reasonably should have such things, such as a video arcade, bar, laundromat, or boardwalk. Similarly, having a home video game system doesn't qualify for this trope, as those are affordable for most people.

truth in television, as demonstrated below - these sorts tend to be die-hard arcade enthusiasts or collectors rescuing a few cabinets or buying "HUO" (home use only) machines. The cost of running and maintaining one does wear out a wallet, of course.

Also see pastimes prove personality and fictional video game.

 In the first night of the  In  In  There is a   In  In a dramatic example,  The schlocky  The original 1986 comedy  A pinball machine and several arcade games (including a large-screen   The original 1981  Appropriately enough, in  The spoiled rich kid in   The main character of  In  A  In   In   Ron Burgandy has four pinball machines In  In  The  The  One episode of  In one episode of   A variation occurs in the  In   Nearly all the hideouts you can get in  In   In the  In   On one segment of  For their participation in developing the  In 1991, Hollywood producer Joel Silver had a vanity pinball machine based on himself. "Joel Silver: The Pinball" was a rethemed version of  Similarly, famed television and film producer   Hugh Hefner has a separate building on the north side of his estate, with vintage and modern arcade games, pinball machines, a player piano, jukebox, billards table, foosball, poker table, television, and stereo spread out over two wings. Games include  Slash of  