Want to show that your evil overlord, or someone within the empire is a genuine bad guy, regardless of their rank in the empire or how minor a character they are? Simple, all you have to do is have them kick the dog, right? Well, what if there isn't a handy dog around? Have them kick whatever minority race/species or gender/sexuality or lower class scum is around instead to show that they're a really bad guy. Bonus points if either the heroes or some highly sympathetic character is a member of said minority.

Depending on how and with whom this is used, it can sometimes come across as just slightly odd. It generally works best with minor characters who have not had a lot of time in the attention of the audience, since you can easily reveal that their hidden depths are really rather unpleasant, thus allowing you to cement them as unlikeable or have the character graduate from being an annoying obstacle to someone the fans will cheer to see put down.

It doesn't always work as well with the magnificent bastard evil overlord types, particularly if introduced late into their run as an antagonist. Because honestly, if the fandom hasn't turned against the Overlord after the character in question may have murdered thousands or even millions, enslaved people in the empire wholesale, and so on and so forth, is having the character be a little sexist or racist really going to automatically turn people against them? (In particularly bad cases of misaimed fandom where the fans were already using every scrap of evidence and threadbare argument to argue that the bad guys weren't that bad, you may risk the character's fans declaring this to be a fanon discontinuity, and possibly even splitting the fanbase). In these cases, to make it work, you might have to do a purposeful flanderization to your character and make them all about their bias. Of course, that will also mean you've gone and derailed your own plot if you need to do it to that extent...

A notable key to this is that the racism, sexism, fantastic racism, or whatever displayed by the character is often completely gratuitous or extraneous to the rest of their villainy. Usually, whatever their goal might be, they don't have to be a racist, speciesist, or sexist to accomplish it - but they are.

This is the reason why those wacky nazis and the klan are at the bottom of the villain food chain, and it's a good bet that the Politically Incorrect Villain will be the one going down in an even evil has standards team-up.

Also, people might sometimes see this trope where it doesn't exist. Some villains are simply bullying types who go after minorities without really caring whether people will find it politically incorrect or not - and it doesn't have to matter if their targets remind them of themselves in some way. Why do they do this? genre savviness, primarily; after all, minorities lack the numbers to fight back, and there's nothing to be gained from bullying a dragon.

Compare evil is petty and he-man woman hater; Contrast equal-opportunity evil. Note however that they are not mutually exclusive; a villain can be progressive towards some groups but intolerant towards others. Compare and contrast the politically incorrect hero. May lead to felony misdemeanor if this character type is thought to be more evil than outwardly flamboyant villains. This should also not be confused with values dissonance, where the author apparently has these attitudes. Any and all instances of those wacky nazis qualify automatically, and a nazi by any other name often does.

this is not when a villain is a minority who is portrayed in a politically incorrect manner. That's unfortunate implications.

