When a character is a jerk jock, alpha bitch, or member of the girl posse they'll likely be beautiful, rich, and, to some extent, charismatic enough to be envied by many of their schoolmates. However, they're typically depicted as being unintelligent—sometimes to the point of too dumb to live—but rarely seem to suffer the ill effects of this as they are either:

 Seen as too important to the school's sports team of choice (usually  Because Daddy is Unlike dumb is good, this is an example of the dim bulbs on a show being the mean ones. The exception to this is when the cool kids are seen as nice, where if this trope is in play they'll become the ditz, or the brainless beauty (though a mean popular kid could be a brainless beauty too). This is a trope that rarely shows up in anime, because in anime the popular kids tend to be intelligent, unrealistically beautiful, aloof and wouldn't be popular in the real life western world.It has been noted that generally, popular people actualy have an about average amount of intelligence in their population as any group of people. Some are blindingly stupid, but some are actually smart. It also should be noted that generally, while some popular people are cruel and exclusive, some actually are nice people. (One wonders how a total bitch/bastard would get to be popular.)

When this is subverted or averted though expect the antagonist to our cool loser or hollywood homely hero to be much, much more dangerous.

This trope demonstrates the key difference between "knowledge" and "intelligence". Poppy McPopular doesn't know who René Descartes is or how to factor an equation because he skips class and doesn't pay attention even when he's there; this is not information he'll come by in his everyday life otherwise, and he doesn't consider it important. That doesn't mean he still isn't a brilliant strategist or leader; sports team captains are expected to memorize complicated strategies and lead their team effectively, things that require mental skills. Caring about science and math isn't seen as important in his worldview, and it's not the kind of thing that can be learned without effort, no matter how intelligent someone is. See also book dumb.

A particularly common trope in movies and television shows made during the 80's and early/mid 90's. It still crops up from time to time but with much less frequency than before due to such cultural changes as the mainstream acceptance of nerd culture and the dawning of the digital age.

See also: alpha bitch, beauty is bad, the cheerleader, jerk jock, the ditz, the brainless beauty. This is often the cause of future loser. The counter part of this tropes is intelligence equals isolation. These two tropes often coexist in the same universe because they hinge on the same principle.

Not to be confused with it's popular, now it sucks.

  Played with in  The film   Brad Bramish, the   Most of  Bertie Wooster from  Averted in the Kate Brian novel,   Pretty much every Disney Channel show  Subverted in  Holly Fischer from  Subverted in  Initially played straight on  In series 3 of  Romeo on   On  Troy on   Accidentally implied in   Cheerleader of Teen Girl Squad, a spin off of sorts of Homestar Runner. While the entire group is   Subverted in   Solange, of the  Averted with  Dash, Kwan, and Paulina from  Tad, Chad, Trixie and Veronica from  Mandy in   In  The Fashion Club along with Kevin and Brittney from   Most who are popular in  An episode of  In 