

There are events for which the spear carrier's "I bring ill tidings" does no justice. These are calamities so timelessly tragic, that all fiction struggles to portray their due gravity and pain. Things like: What do you tell a child when a parent dies? Is there a right way to tell someone their spouse has been killed? How exactly do you tell the friend to all living things she's part of a race that's full of bastards who prove rousseau wrong?

This last one is especially thorny. The more sheltered, innocent, and good-natured the cutie, the harder she will break and burn when informed of humanities' many self-inflicted sins. It doesn't help that she's usually the macguffin girl or a barrier maiden whose good faith is central to beating the supreme evil.

Clever villains will use this as a demoralizing ploy on the heroes, surely utopia justifies the means if the result is a more civilized (or extinct) human race? Heroes who are especially shaken up by his storyboarding the apocalypse may even do a face-heel turn. Inevitably, it's up to the messianic archetype to restore the shaken faith, usually with a hearty dose of the power of friendship and a whoopi epiphany speech about how "The sins of the past can not be undone but for the good works we do today!"

Popular events to get traumatized with include but are by no means limited to: global environmental destruction, African poverty and genocides, the Crusades (the effect is lost somewhat, in comparison to others, if actual figures are used), the vietnam war, wwi and wwii. The atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and the Holocaust, are particularly popular episodes from the latter conflict. Note that the way (high-)school history works is usually with short summaries and series of anecdotes, rarely explaining things in-depth or using actual (casualty, war-crime, etc) figures and statistics. Consequently, expect the 'cool' events - like The Fire-Bombing of Tokyo or The Atomic-Bombings - to feature more prominently than (orders of magnitude) bloodier and gorier, but more 'boring', events like The second sino-japanese war.

Obviously, this is truth in television, as this sort of thing does tend to hit young students hard, understandably enough.

 In  Similarly, in the Rolling Stones' "Sympathy for the Devil", it is implied that   Leeloo's history lesson in    In   In Jack Finney's  The 'baby Addison' episode on  In  On  The 1999  Since they have all lived through worse, the aliens on  In  In  This turns out to be a big plot point in  Kamimura of 