Start with one cup(pa) tea. Mix in a hearty helping of posh, formal, excessively polite-sounding received pronunciation accent, or at least how you think it is pronounced. No one (except those pesky british people) will notice. Add some stock british phrases for seasoning, wot, wot. Throw it all in a top hat and stir with a monocle over low heat for the 1000+ years in the history of the british empire. Turn it out carefully, give him a name like "Sir Nigel Featherstonehaugh-Smythe," and Bob's your uncle, you have yourself the britishiest british man to ever "cheerio" his way into the media-viewing-public's home. And no one (except those pesky british people) will be any the wiser that you're mixing dialectal phrases willy-nilly or throwing British slang around like Frisbees.

The Quintessential British Gentleman is a stock character commonly found in decidedly not-so-British works, who encapsulates everything that non-Brits (most commonly Americans) think of when they think of that funny little island across the pond. Much like the eaglelander is a flanderized American, this chap is the flanderized Brit. Common characteristics include:

 A top hat or  A morning coat and striped trousers, or (if on his country estate) a tweed suit, usually with matching flat cap and possibly with plus-fours instead of slacks.

 Is a  Lots of  Being either extremely polite and gentlemanly, or  Using phrases such as "pip pip," "cheerio," and "guv'nor," even though these combine expressions from completely different dialects and from opposite ends of the class spectrum.

 A  A crazy mustache.

 Making lots of references to  An Autoharp or harpsichord playing in the background.

 A cane or umbrella.

He's not always a product of critical research failure, however. Sometimes, just as an eaglelander is a gentle poking-fun-at of Americans, so too might this fellow be a humorous, good-natured jab at English - and done well, of course, even the Brits can find it funny. In fact, many of the works listed were created by Britons, casually playing with their own stereotypes (Britons, generally speaking, are good at self-deprecation). Some Britons actually act like this, if not in everyday life, then at least recreationally. because it's funny.Compare with that hawaiian-shirted tourist from eagleland, and that bush-hatted fellow from the land down under. By the way, has nothing to do with the lord british postulate, but plenty to do with stiff upper lip. The Q.B.G is probably helpless without the jeeves. See also the gentleman snarker, which is what the Quintessential British Gentleman probably was in his wild youth.

Actual British gentlemanly behaviour is more subtle than speech or dress, involving the virtues of hospitality, rationality and temperance, the avoidance of irrational extremes, devotion to 'things held dear', rebellion against corruption, and courageous composure in the face of adversity. (However, some of these - notably extreme composure - are sometimes seen in trope form).

