turning over a new leaf is hard. Especially when no one believes that you're sincere about it, and won't forgive willingly.

This is the companion trope to the civilian villain, who pretends to have reformed, but in reality is only biding his time while he plots his latest nefarious scheme. The hero, however, is not fooled. By contrast, the desire of the reformed, but rejected character to leave his evil ways in the past is completely genuine — but the hero still refuses to be "fooled."

Unlike the atoner, this character was usually not overwhelmingly evil; while he may have done bad things, he hasn't gone completely overboard. His sins are more along the lines of "stole some bread" or "robbed a bank", not "destroyed ten inhabited planets and built pyramids of skulls while laughing wildly." Thus, he is generally not of the opinion that he needs to spend the rest of his life and possibly his afterlife as well trying to make up for his misdeeds, and is in fact due some good karma. All he wants is a chance at a normal honest life. It's getting people to give him that chance that presents a problem.

Often the disinclination to believe that a character has truly become good is not limited to just the hero or heroes, but is the reaction of society in general. The reformed character can find this a bitter pill to swallow, particularly if they have "done their time" in prison, or paid their debt to society in some other way, yet find that society is not prepared to let bygones be bygones.

Things get even more frustrating for the character whose bad reputation is completely unearned, because he was wrongly accused, possibly even convicted, perhaps even made to do the time — but he never actually did the crime. Yet he still faces the exact same rejection as the genuine wrongdoer.

In the best case, the reformed (or genuinely innocent) character finds the strength of will to withstand the scorn and derision of the heroes and/or society at large, and is eventually able to prove themselves truly changed (or is able to maintain the good character they never actually lost) despite the enormous pressure. They succeed in making a place for themselves in honest society, however humble that place may be. (They may even realize that their previous attempts were buy them off and, if not spending the rest of their lives atoning, do more to make up for what they did.)

In the worst case, the pressure is too much and the reformed character's resolve falters and fails. he returns to his old bad ways, often ending up in jail again. Or, if he was originally innocent, he may become so bitter that he will decide he has no choice except to become what reputation has made him. He may even become so despairing that he takes his own life rather than live with non-stop contempt and derision. To rub salt in it, the heroes might take this as proof that he really had never changed at all, and in the case of bad writing this will be how the story interprets it.

This character is prone to attracting the attention of an inspector javert, who is convinced that "men like you can never change." Javert is likely to hound the character non-stop, hoping to catch him in a criminal act, or possibly even goad him into committing one.

A character who reforms in a particularly unsubtle way and does not face rejection and scorn afterward, but instead finds the heroes welcoming him with open arms and perhaps a nice cake, has undergone badass decay.

The greatest danger for a reformed, but rejected character, however, is not inspector javert, but bad karma. it might be safer to just stay bad.A subtrope to rejected apology. Contrast the farmer and the viper, where someone given the opportunity this reformer seeks turns it against his benefactors or redemption rejection where a villain is offered a chance to reform only for the villain to refuse. Also contrast with easily forgiven where a formerly villainous character is quickly forgiven for any crimes they may have committed as soon as they start helping the good guys. Compare heel face door slam, where the villain never even gets to start their journey to redemption (or attempts to but is rebuffed because their old actions really were too far beyond the pale for anything resembling a convincing redemption); and redemption failure, where they embark on said journey but are turned around by external forces half-way through. See also villain ball magnet. May result from a third-act misunderstanding. If the heroes did forgive him, but still give him this sort of treatment, then it's forgiven but not forgotten.

Like any trope dealing with heel face turns, this page is likely to contain spoilers. Tread carefully.

