Most people, after reading enough fiction, begin to have an idea of how relationships begin to fit together, and can spot a budding romance a mile off. Sometimes, though, the writers break away from these conceptions and do something entirely unexpected. Normally the writers figure out what the relationship between two people should be in a series, then they take the stock derivatives and toss in cues to clue the viewer into how things are between those two people. When this trope crops up, however, it's usually the result of a writer breaking from the established relationship types and attempting to forge unusual bonds. To do this, they need to either re-use existing cues (and risk the viewer drawing the wrong conclusions) or create new ones (and risk the viewer drawing the wrong conclusions). Although sometimes a writer will pull it off, it more often leaves people with the completely wrong impression.

This trope isn't about writers fumbling the treatment of some relationship they meant to put in canon — making it more sympathetic or less sympathetic than they intended (in nine times out of ten, the trope you get in that case is fan-preferred couple). This is about a writer fumbling their treatment of something that wasn't supposed to be a relationship at all, so fans look at it and go "huh, seems like there's something there." Perhaps they accidentally made the protagonist and antagonist a bit too chummy, or put too much belligerent sexual tension into sibling rivalry, or even slipped off the tightrope of heterosexual life-partners. Regardless of how it happened, they managed to pull off a Relationship Writing Fumble and now the writers are stuck dealing with the consequences. In minor cases, it will just be popular fanon, but sometimes you'll have entire fanbases assuming that's what the writer "really" intended.

The best ways to spot these fall into two groups — word of god meddling and series dissonance:

 The  The relationship gets  The relationship is reworked to either concede or prohibit the unintended consequences in an  The scenes and dialog in question are   One or both of the characters in question is This is highly subjective, of course. What may seem like obvious subtext to you might not be the case to another (in particular, a lot of plain old sibling rivalry commonly gets interpreted as belligerent sexual tension). See also: ho yay, foe yay, no yay, and incest subtext.

