Sadly, the mary sue's aura of awesome does not extend out of the pages she's written on, and that "sympathetic" teen genius wesley and "adorable" feisty pup scrappy aren't exceptions either. Even the "cool" plot twist can go awry. What's an author to do? There's always the option of putting them on a bus, or hoping to succeed with an author's saving throw, but this character, for various reasons, just can't be done away with like that.

Well, there's only one thing left to do... get them rescued from the scrappy heap.

This is a reinterpretation of the character or idea, be it in the form of character development, a retool, a time skip making the character mature a bit, or giving the actor acting lessons. In any event, they get fleshed out in a way that wins over bitter fans and breathes new life into the series.

A few series can even do this intentionally, and have an otherwise unlikable smug snake evolve into a more human, three-dimensional character.

Not to be confused with took a level in badass, which, while capable of being a step in the right direction, is about a wimp becoming a badass. This is about a hated character becoming a much less hated character. To illustrate the difference:

 If Scrappy Doo were able to fight the monsters on a roughly equal footing, then he'd have  If Scrappy Doo were to grow up a little, and stop trying to fight monsters all the time and doing all his other stuff that irritates fans (while keeping his lack of monster-fighting skill), that'd be this trope.

Naturally, the two can be combined, if the main reason a character is disliked is their cowardice and lack of skill.

In a way, this is the opposite of canon discontinuity, which excludes the character from canon entirely. Compare ensemble dark horse and badass decay. Also contrast author's saving throw, which is an attempt to hand wave away the offending element, rather than fix it outright. See growing the beard in case you feel this way about the show itself. Might overlap with alas, poor scrappy, reimagining the artifact, or especially a day in the limelight.

      