When portrayed in the media, rhinos are always hulkingly big, heavy, and intimidating animals that are known to have bad eyesight, short tempers, and a tendency to run down and trample (or gore to death) things that piss them off. they're not very smart, but they always use their heads. They are one of the truly bad ass species of animal in the world. If they appear in a game, expect a smash mook or maybe a bullfight boss. If they're depicted in fiction, they're likely to be a dangerous obstacle. If it's a comedy, expect to see someone sent flying.

When a character is based on a rhinoceros, expect a tough brute capable of a lot of violence. If the character is a good guy, expect a lot of trampled mooks. If the character is a bad guy, expect running. Lots and lots of running.

In real life, a rhinoceros is essentially an armor-plated cow (though its more closely related to the horse and the tapir). It isn't anywhere near as aggressive or mindlessly violent as its been portrayed in the media. It can still be a dangerous animal, but by far more humans are killed each year by elephants and hippopotami. In fact, humans are probably more dangerous to it because all of the living species of rhino are endangered due to poaching and habitat loss.

Fun fact: A group of rhinos is called a "crash".

  One of  Kasai from  Rhino, originally a villain for    Subverted with the battle-rhinoceros from  This trope was going to be used in    A rhino is the occupant on one of the cars in the circus train at the start of  In the  Several cultures have folk tales that tell of a rhinoceros putting out a raging fire. By trampling it under its feet.

 The Erumpent in   The  At the start of  The  The rhino from  The picture book  In  The Judoon, from    Dominic, the (second)  Kamen Rider Thrust from  Also, all across  Remember  An  Rhino Records is without a doubt the coolest media company on the planet. Except when it comes to remastering old cartoons.

 Averted in   In   In   The  In the Ionesco play    In  The  Not to be confused with   Tunnel Rhino from  One of the challenges in   There is a hero in  The  Gohma Chargers from  In the  The Drill Sye (Sai meaning rhino in Japanese) dream eater in  The grand majority of the  In  In the  " The   Rocksteady from  Rhinox from     Subverted with Lulu from  Also subverted with Clam from  Carl and Frank from  Roy from  In the  The Wallop species in  Sea Rhinocerous' from  The textbook  The rhinoceros family used to be far more diverse then the 5 species that are alive today. The most impressive is probably  