Procrastination is the putting off of an unpleasant task until the last minute. It's quite common. Hell, if you are reading this, you probably are procrastinating right now. The Ridiculous Procrastinator is someone—often someone very capable—who does this to such ridiculous extremes that it is almost funny. He will put off writing a 10,000-word paper until the night before it is due, and once he sits down to start it, he will find half a million petty tasks that do not need to be done to avoid writing that paper. Often, he will find that the assignment practically writes itself once he gets going.

Some common tactics of the Ridiculous Procrastinator include sharpening pencils, constantly checking email, cleaning, feeding the pets, talking on the phone (bonus points if they talk about the task), reading tv tropes (bonus bonus points if they're reading this page) and basically anything that they can do to avoid doing what they have to do.

When they finally begin working (usually when they realize they only have about an hour left to finish), they begin working like the flash after drinking 12 pots of coffee. In some cases, they finish their project at the last minute, run like madmen to their class (or workplace, or what have you), only to find out that the deadline's been changed, or the project's been canceled, meaning they've done all that work for nothing.

Most procrastinators are aware they have a problem and intend to correct their fatal flaw. They'll get right on it tomorrow.

There are a ton more examples beyond those listed below, including:

... bah, we'll add them later, we got time, you wanna shoot some hoops or get something to eat? In a filler episode of    Chiaki Yoshino in   During a flashback in the first  In  In several stories of  While we're at it: There's a story about a rabbi who orders a pair of trousers from a tailor while on a trip, but has to leave the town again before the tailor's finished them. Six years later, he coincidentally travels to the town again, where he runs into the tailor, who happily tells him that he just finished the trousers.

  Jerome K. Jerome's   Sam Malone did this on  The  The first episode of  Neil on  One episode of  An episode of   Jeremy from     Wally from  The  The titular character in   The release date for anything new for either  Procrastination Giants in  Possibly also this trope (among other reasons) for the famous  The reason why the eponymous   In   Ben from      In  In  The  Hilariously inverted in   If you are reading  A popular line of T-shirts carried the slogans "I'll Procrastinate Tomorrow" and "Procrastinators Unite Tomorrow".

 Another T-shirt reads "Top Ten Reasons I Procrastinate: 1) "  Yet another T-shirt reads "I Have Not Yet Begun To Procrastinate".

 An article by      