

Still at loss about what to do with your life? Fret not - if you happen to find yourself in a romance/comedy/romantic comedy, you can follow this easy counselling guide for career enlightement. You do need a job, or you won't be able to afford the lifestyle that allows for luxurious abodes while spending most days solely mulling over romantic entanglements. But narrowing down the job options is very easy:

 Want to show your nurturing side? Become a doctor (especially if a male) or a teacher (especially if a female), to land an infinitely secure, respectable and satisfying job. Those jobs are character shorthand that tell every potential suitor that you are caring and non-threatening, adept at looking after others, i.e. good spouse/family-making material - essential qualities in  Want to be creative? Become anything where a normal person has miniscule opportunities to make an actual living - a photographer, illustrator, writer, designer of stuff, or choose one of the more creative jobs in media. You will still be guaranteed unprecedented success, big promotions and/or rave reviews. Even if you're currently a Cooking has enough creative elements to be applicable. As a bonus, it handily offers opportunities for romantic gestures - like creating meals in unusual locations - and hints to your special someone that you are family-ready. If you're man you should be a chef, if you're a woman try something smaller and cuter, like cupcakes. If you rather not physically create something yourself, become a hang-around to the cultured and creative: try event planning, advertising/PR, music business, doing stuff at an art gallery, or running your own artsy corner shop.

Creative jobs are useful in the rom com world, as they have a cool and glamorous ring to them, yet sound like there could be a decent expected income to support your prospective family. They have vague job descriptions and irregular hours which free you for the romance, and you get a chance to meet a variety of colorful characters (especially at places like art galleries and little corner shops). It doesn't hurt here that the typical writer-creator of the Rom Com world can pour in some of their insight of the creative business.

3) Want money? Become a high-flying exec of an unspecified corporate entity or a lawyer without a good cause. This is character shorthand for you being a type-a workaholic who's married to their job and a total sell-out. Therefore, be prepared to change jobs ASAP to prove your creative or nurturing side (see: options 1 and 2) to your laidback love interest, as currently you work for evil. Remember, if you're too good and efficient at what you do, bad things will follow, like dying.

So go ahead, pursue your chosen job, opportunities are practically endless! (Restrictions may apply.)

Compare with stock superhero day jobs and occupation tropes. See also most writers are writers, one-hour work week, starving artist, love tropes, romantic comedy.



Examples:

