In music (especially in Rock and Roll music) the image an artist puts forth is almost as important as their songs. Almost.

Musicians are expected to be larger than life, so it's no surprise at all that hardcore rockers might want to look... well... hardcore, if only to meet the expectations of their fans. Every once in a while, though, you come across a musician who looks as hardcore as they come. His music? Not so much. This trope is all about when the tattoo-encrusted bad ass-wannabe puts out songs about love and puppies. Someone who's only familiar with the image might find all of their songs to be surprisingly gentle songs.

Note that there's absolutely nothing wrong with having a hardcore appearance and doing soft music. Different strokes for different folks. This trope is about the dichotomy of the image, not whether or not the music fits any individual's tastes. Also note that the extremes change over time: What was shockingly hardcore back in the day is tame now, and what's hardcore at present might be on par with Frank Sinatra once your great-grandchildren start forming their own garage rock bands.

Oddly, the inverse is equally or even more common- many of the bands that play the heaviest and blackest of metal are laid-back, fun loving guys.

Related to rated g for gangsta, mean character, nice actor and dark is not evil. See also freaky fashion, mild mind, rule-abiding rebel, and hidden depths.

    When Cyndi Lauper debuted in the 1980s, she looked like a punk straight out of the East Village, with strange makeup and a checkerboard shaved into her pink hair. But her power ballads and pop anthems were accessible to music fans from all walks of life.

 1990s  Dashboard Confessional's Chris Carrabba has teen idol good looks and tattoos up and down his arms. His music seems to fit more with his big Disney eyes than with his "badass" ink.

 Legendary producer  In his time,  Despite the makeup and the    Most fictional musicians from TV and the movies fit this trope to some extent.

 For  Eclectic and ridiculously prolific breakcore artist Venetian Snares normally makes music just as aggressive and unfriendly as he looks, but a few of his tracks (looking at you,  Culture Club, thanks to the androgynous  Actual goth music sounds nothing like most people assume. The best example is   It seems that this is becoming a general trend. Music videos are becoming        The Finnish band  This  Most  The Break Up, despite their intimidating fashions, produce mostly upbeat nu-wave electro music.

  One review of  Akira Yamoka, the pretty normal and harmless looking Japanese dude that frightened us in     Spanish blues band Plonk Moist.     iwrestledabearonce look like  The Gerogerigegege. He only  John Zorn.  "Terrifying" was an adjective frequently applied to early  This is pretty much the rule for any grindcore or powerviolence band.  This is   Screamo bands tend to have very bland images and rarely even look like they're part of the punk subculture, but the music is often very brutal and chaotic. Note this video of   Ladies and gentlemen,  Flagitious Idiosyncrasy In The Dilapidation look like      The guys from  Reversal of Man looked like a fairly  Tommy Rogers of  On the reverse of Ozzy, his bandmates plus  Josh Middleton, singer and guitarist of Sylosis looks   "Quorthon",     Project Pitchfork   One that doesn't directly involve music, but look at any picture of   Several   Nivek Ogre from   William Bennett. He fronts a band who sounds something like  The members of  Kimberly Freeman, the lead singer of the metal band "    Look at  It has been noted that JR Hayes of    Many hellektro/terror-EBM/aggrotech artists, such as Funker Vogt(Jens Kastel) and Suicide Commando(Johan van Roy), are quite good-looking and mild-mannered, in contrast to the genre's extremely harsh, angsty vibe.

  The   While the bulk of  Dir en grey is an interesting case because their music ranges from  Skyblue 100 are a strange case. They're a  An art example of an inversion:   Revo of  Canadian outsider musician Tonetta dresses like a serial killer of the   Granted, in 2012 a punk style doesn't carry the shocking punch it would have in 1992, but singer Michaela Paige wears very unique outfits to put it mildly and has a three color mohawk.

 You'd probably expect a band named  By loking at 