A case of weirdness censor wherein a character, attempting to offer a so-called 'rational' explanation for a supernatural or unlikely situation, ends up offering an explanation that is itself so tortuous, convoluted and/or improbable that it also ceases to be rational. Although it may draw upon things that are seemingly more plausible and 'real' than the supernatural explanation, the way it puts them together is unlikely or full of holes and the epileptic trees invoked by the characters (who, ironically, are usually trying to debunk someone else's epileptic trees) so ludicrous that the viewers want to bash their heads against the wall and point out that accepting the (super)natural reality would, in fact, be simpler.

As a hypothetical example, take the climax of the film Ghostbusters, which involves an ancient evil god from another dimension, which has taken on the form of a 50-foot advertising mascot made entirely out of marshmallow. In this form, it attacks the roof of an apartment building in full view of the public in an attempt to open a portal to another dimension and destroy the world. That is all, admittedly, a fairly difficult set of events to believe in, and if agent scully were investigating it she might explain this as all being just a big hoax. The titular Ghostbusters merely staged the marshmallow man and used a combination of a fancy light show and hallucinogenic substances to fool the credulous people below into believing they were witnessing a supernatural event. Which actually makes sense on the surface...

... But don't pat yourself on the back just yet, Scully. If you think about it for more than five seconds, there's a lot that the seemingly 'rational' explanation doesn't actually explain at all, or which itself requires increasingly convoluted and improbable further explanations. For instance, how and where does one even get enough marshmallow to make a 50-foot marshmallow man? How and where does one make said marshmallow man, and hide it away from everyone until the absolute right moment? How do you get it to move and act convincingly — or move at all, for that matter? How do they set up their 'light show' at the building without anyone noticing? It steps on a church at one point — how do you stage that? In fact, the opening of the portal creates earthquakes, lightning storms and unseasonal instantaneous storm clouds — how do the Ghostbusters create earthquakes and control the weather? How does one spread enough hallucinogens to dose an an entire city without anyone noticing, and then manage to ensure that everyone has the same hallucination? And ultimately, even if you could do all of this it would all take a lot of effort, and you'd probably need a lot of people to help you do it (all of whom will have to have some kind of motivation to keep quiet — such as as a lot of money), and the Ghostbusters are just four guys — how did they manage to do this all by themselves without involving anyone else whatsoever?

In short, however incredible it may seem, isn't the explanation that this is a God taking on the form of a marshmallow man to destroy the world actually the simpler and more credible explanation at this point?

As alluded to above, a marking feature of agent scully. Compare invisible to normals, arbitrary skepticism, flat earth atheist. Not to be confused with the real Weinstein Kliman Scully syndrome.

 Happens to Cilan in  People in  Subverted in  Subversion: L of  In  Mr. Terrific from  In  Graham and Merrill from     Parodied/subverted in  In  In  Named after Dana Scully of  The main characters of  T'Pol from  Some of the main characters on  The  In  Discussed and inverted in  Human beings are literally  The Hindrance "Doubting Thomas" in  The World of Darkness universe uses this to explain why humanity as a whole does not believe in magic or supernatural creatures. As a player in the Mage universe you need to shape the magic to be "realistic" to a bystander i.e. The guy wasn't blasted by a wizard with a lightning bolt, he was killed by a power surge through the TV he was standing next too. To stretch reality to far as a Mage brings about Paradox which will force you to pay for violating reality around normal people. Werewolves invoke a form of mass hysteria where onlookers believe they are seeing a junkie or some such throwing people around like ragdolls. Vampires require the Masquerade to be maintained to prevent humanity from realizing there is a threat in their midst and stamping out vampire kind en masse. These mechanics are supposed to make playing characters reign in their more destructive nature until they can really let loose in private or secluded areas. Then the fun times begin with the yelling and the screaming and the wanton bloodshed.

 In Warhammer Fantasy the Empire is this to the Skaven, they can accept magic in most forms but not the existence of a race of ratmen, explaining them away as beast men or madness. This view is kept even though they have been at war with them.

 Nearly every character in the   A major  Besides of its blatant parody of the original character and her opposite counterpart,  Parodied in  In the  After a red rain in India, a local "scientist" decided to come up with a "scientific" explanation to counter the peoples' supernatural explanations for the "blood." It was a convoluted and downright-silly explanation involving bats killed at high altitude by a meteor. (The actual cause was red algae - not paranormal, but nowhere near as ridiculous as the bat blood.)

 Any and every attempt to scientifically justify the existence of real-life vampires. "Explanations" include diabetes and porphyria, both of which actually fail miserably. Aside from the diseases not doing what they think they do ( Young Earth creationists like Kent Hovind who try to "scientifically" explain miracles in the Bible, and let's just leave it at that.

 Many a 