Sesquipedalian: A long word, or characterized by the use of long words. From the Latin roots meaning "a foot and a half long."

Loquaciousness: that would be garrulousness, verboseness, effusiveness. how about "chattiness"? a predilection by the intelligentsia to engage in the manifestation of prolix exposition through a buzzword disposition form of communication notwithstanding the availability of more comprehensible, punctiliously applicable, diminutive alternatives. Also known as "gross verbosity". Related to this is the use of inkhorn terms, loanwords from a foreign origin that are pretentious to an average speaker.

In brief: "smart" characters using long words when short ones would be better, especially when they are also motor mouths. Characters afflicted with this trait often seem to go out of their way to over-complicate their speech, probably because writers think that this is the only way to show that someone is more intelligent than the average writer. This could also be the trait of a particularly anal-retentive character who always has to be right, the trait extending so far that the character always has to use exactly the right word — never using "blue" when "azure" or "indigo" or even "royal blue" would be more accurate, for example.

Occasionally such characters may drop the long words if things get particularly dire, to emphasize just how bad things are (in the same way as a sarcasm failure). Alternatively, they may get even more wordy as they get more emotional, leading to increasingly detailed but ultimately incoherent ranting that falls too easily into wangst. Frequently another character will respond with something like "Wouldn't it be easier to just [whatever the brainy person said, in layman's terms]?" or "And [layman's terms version], too!"

Ironically, Williams Syndrome can lead to this kind of behavior. People with asperger's syndrome and some forms of Dyslexia may do this in an attempt to be as precise as possible, ironically making themselves harder to understand.

One of the symptoms of spock speak. Usually also a motor mouth. goes well with british accents, too. Used frequently in sommelier speak. Often takes advantage of the fact that talking is a free action, and could be a case of acoustic license if the surroundings would make it difficult to hear clearly in the first place, much less understand the words. See also techno babble, expospeak gag, antiquated linguistics, sophisticated as hell, and department of redundancy department. May result in in calling me a logarithm. If someone tries for this and can't get the words right, they're perpetrating delusions of eloquence. If the author commits this, see purple prose. The word antidisestablishmentarianism is almost guaranteed to show up as well.

Very heavily associated with the steampunk genre in particular, and truth in television in that case, as the Victorians did speak a form of English that was more complex and verbose, and less dumbed down than current usage.

It's worth noting that there is a word for the fear of long words; ironically, it's "sesquipedalophobia" often exaggerated by people into "hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia".

The polar opposite of buffy speak and layman's terms. Big Words redirects here, for those of us who prefer to avert this trope in real life. Contrast the laconic wiki. Also note the similarity to techno babble. May require one to have a translator buddy.

For a self-demonstrating version, please click here: enjoy.