terribleThe Good Guy and the Bad Guy have a meeting. The Bad Guy makes an offer. The Good Guy rejects it outright because he's the Good Guy.

Then the Bad Guy rattles off a few offhand remarks about how beautiful the Good Guy's wife, child, house, dog, mother, whole family, etc. are. He shows recent photos of the lovely person or thing in question, and perhaps a copy of personal information the Good Guy thought was secret. And then comments offhandedly that "It'd be a shame if <something bad> were to happen to it/them."

The clear implication is if the Good Guy doesn't give the Bad Guy what he wants, <something bad> will happen to it/them.

This generally gets the Good Guy back to the bargaining table, and shows just how bad the Bad Guy is. It also calls attention to the resource level of the Bad Guy and his criminal conspiracy.

There may be some overlap with the villain knows where you live (when the Bad Guy backs up this threat by proving he knows where to find the Good Guy and/or the Good Guy's family). This may lead to an and your little dog too situation, making the Good Guy much more likely to take the Bad Guy down than if they hadn't threatened the good guy's friends and family. And the Bad Guy needs to make sure that the Good Guy they're trying this on with isn't someone who could instantly and unexpectedly turn them into a smear on the wall if they were in any way displeased, since threatening innocent loved ones is a good way to trigger an unstoppable rage from the seemingly meek and mild.

This is also a common stock phrase used by thugs (usually the mafia) in extortion rackets. "You've got a nice (noun) here. It'd be a shame if anything were to... happen to it."

Often parodied: the big bad will threaten the hero with some minor inconvenience, and it will be treated with the same seriousness as a death threat, if not more seriously.

In linguistics, this sort of threat is known as a Gricean Implicature.See also terms of endangerment, interrogation by vandalism and trouble entendre. If the Bad Guy's threat actually gets carried out, it often leads to i have your wife. If one doesn't want to look bad, he can use a monster protection racket instead.

