This trope happens when you meet her. In any kind of fiction, she is likely to be your rival (professional or otherwise). In family pictures, she's most often a would-be stepmother. In thrillers, she's testifying in a murder case and may even be suspected. Whatever incarnation of this demon you encounter, it doesn't matter, really, because when you see her, you'll just know. From the moment you'll meet, you'll start feeling something is off. she's not jealous of you, even if you try to take the attention from her. she's never angry, even when you try setting her perfect hair on fire. She's always kind to you and she never takes off that radiant smile.

But you've been on TV Tropes. you know what it means. She's a stepford smiler, and certainly not a type A. She's obviously a femme fatale gold digger starfish alien who wants to take over the world, take your job and dad and friends away from you and humiliate you at prom... and your little dog too... because of... reasons...

except no. As everyone could have told you, and as you should have known, she is really nice, and you, my dear conspiracy theorist know-nothing know-it-all, should take. your. freaking. meds. right. now ! Unless you're being a clingy jealous girl or this is your ambition is evil start of darkness story. In which case, *gasp!*This trope happens when the story sets up suspicions of bitch in sheep's clothing, but subverts it, either by making the character be the nice person they appear to be, or by revealing that they played another kind of nice than the usual one, but are ultimately just as decent as they appeared, if they weren't better.

Often delivers a lesson about how evil cannot comprehend good when the villain tries to hannibal lecture and thinks that he has found something evil in the hero, but there isn't anything evil to find and the hero proves them wrong. Sometimes used as an aesop to the audience surrogate against believing certain stereotypes, causing shared audience guilt, as in children films nowadays, in which this happens to stepparents to the extent that they can do no wrong.

Compare/contrast jerk with a heart of jerk, when suspicions of kindness about an usually jerkass-like character are wrong.

