A device used to introduce a detective character and his skills. The detective mentions some fact about the person he's just met, something that is not immediately obvious and he has no way of knowing ("Quitting cigarettes appears to have been good for you", "How's the wedding planning going?", "You've holidayed in Italy recently"). The other character looks skeptical or surprised, then the detective describes his reasoning from a set of minor clues (state and style of clothes, marks on skin, tan, etc.) and consequent assumptions. May be involved in a hannibal lecture, especially if delivered by the chessmaster or the magnificent bastard.

This is often not connected directly to the main plotline, but just to show "This is how the detective's mind works, and yes, the detective is That Good." The obvious subversion is to play this out, then have the detective admit that he was told the fact, or else for the other person to insist the detective is utterly wrong.

This is often cited as a demonstration of deductive reasoning (reaching a conclusion that is true by definition based on its premises) but is actually an example of inductive reasoning (reaching a conclusion that has some probability of being true based on its premises). In general, deductive arguments produce only trivial truths in a field like detective work, so induction is all you can use. Due to the laws of probability this means that a detailed scan should be extremely likely to err on a few details, but this almost never happens in fiction.

A common parody of this is to have the detective note these details before drawing attention to the blindingly obvious clue.Compare the scarily competent tracker, who is like a Sherlock Scan done on footprints, and the batman cold open. See also hyper awareness and awesome by analysis. When this kind of reasoning makes no sense but still works, it's a bat deduction. When the above subversion of performing one of these before noting an obvious hint occurs, it's clue, evidence, and a smoking gun. If there's a "psychic" bent to the scan, it's cold reading.

