When a protagonist does an ambiguously (a)moral act because current circumstances make it the most pragmatic and logical thing to do. If the hero performs the job himself, he may even go so far as to hide it from the rest of the cast (possibly with serious repercussions later) due to the risk of compromising his moral standards, or they might say what the hell, hero? to which he might reply i did what i had to do. Otherwise, he may delegate it to the anti-hero or the lancer, whose reputations won't be hurt as severely for the deed. May demonstrate what you are in the dark.

If one Shoots The Dog too often, one runs the risk of becoming a knight templar or poisonous friend. Alternatively, a psycho sidekick, popular in hard-boiled crime fiction since the 1980s or so, is a character whom the author approves of whose main purpose is to Shoot the Dog whenever necessary. the spock is also likely to suggest shooting the dog and is the personification of this trope. Depending on the slant of the series, he will also be the one to carry about the shooting, or the characters will take a third option at the last minute. If the author doesn't want to compromise his heroes' goodness, he'll have big damn villains do it. One common way to show the emotional pain this causes is by showing the shooter cradling their kill.

This trope is named after the climactic scene of Old Yeller, where the titular dog is literally shot to put it out of its misery.

For a diametric opposition that makes you cheer for the hero's senselessness, see honor before reason. For extra anguish, it may well have been a senseless sacrifice because the one shot was no longer a threat. Expect the shooter to go for the most jerk ass solution even when fridge logic indicates much less morally compromising ones are possible, because murder is the best solution.

Note that this trope is not kick the dog but more so (the closest thing to that would be moral event horizon); kicking the dog is the villain being senselessly evil just to show the audience how evil he is. Shooting the Dog is an ostensibly heroic character doing something that is necessary but morally gray — such as putting down the old family pet after it's contracted rabies. (bad dreams are far more likely after shooting the dog than after kicking it.) Senseless shooting of a dog would actually fall under kick the dog or moral event horizon. and it also has nothing to do with the desire every 8-bit gamer ever has had to shoot the Duck Hunt dog.

If an actual pet is involved, this is an exception to infant immortality.

This may or may not be confused with Don't Shoot The Puppy., but do not confuse with shoot the shaggy dog, which is a particular form of downer ending.

Compare/contrast with light is not good, omniscient morality license, well-intentioned extremist, knight templar, the unfettered, cruel to be kind. The version where a bad guy does this for a hero is bad guys do the dirty work.

     