A sub-trope of weapon of choice.

Behold, the staff. Essentially nothing more than a long, wooden club, it is one of the simplest weapons known to man, yet frequently referred to as the deadliest melee weapon ever created. It can be easily improvised from a number of ordinary farming and cleaning tools — such as plows, rakes, or mops — that are readily found anywhere. those who frown upon spilling blood can confiscate various polearms and snap off the pointy end(s) to suit their tastes. Even convenient tree branches can serve in a pinch.

However, not all staves need be so simple. A few war-staves are shod with blunt metal caps for harder strikes, and bound with iron rings to better parry swords. The violent potential of especially these iron-shod staves cannot be overstated, as when wielded properly are quite capable of shattering bone, denting and deforming armor and completely removing vulnerable areas such as the jaw.

Many instead double as symbols of station, and thus feature elaborate headpieces — of which the wisest choices are sturdy and heavy enough to serve in a fight. Some clever individuals have made staves out of hollow metal pieces that can collapse into a concealable weapon.

In the West, a full-length fighting staff is called a quarterstaff. Contrary to general opinion or many movies, in the medieval age a staff was not held in the middle, but wielded in a similar way to a spear or two handed sword. In Japan, it is called a bo, with a smaller version called a jo. The Japanese also have hanbo — short staves that Westerners would call rods. A Filipino fighting art called Eskrima (or Arnis or Kali, depending on which island you're from) also makes use of these short rods.Staves tend to be the weapon of choice among monks and others who, for moral and/or ethical reasons, refuse to take a life, but for various reasons find themselves desiring a weapon. Anyone else interested in practicing combat skills is more interested in lethality, and so affix various pointy ends to their poles, making these implements a different kind of weapon entirely. Of course, some people take a middle path and conceal various nasty surprises in their staves.

Staves also tend to be the favorite of particularly old and weary characters in need of a walking stick — or those who wish to appear older and wearier than they really are. As such, it is a favorite among old masters and certain kinds of wizard. In the latter case, the "simple" staff probably also doubles as a magic wand, thus becoming the hybrid melee and magical weapon, the magic staff. Staves work great for teachers because a) they don't look impressive, and thus when they kick your ass it's a demonstration of the user's skill, and b) staves provide ample opportunity for hard whacks to the shins or head — painful, but not fatal, blows — thus perfect for discipline.

These connections to the monastic, the mystic, the elderly, the traveled, and the sorcerous have lent the staff itself, and those who use it, a certain image of being intellectual, knowledgeable and wise. Whether this is any more real than the image of frailty is another matter, but more staves in fantasy are Magic Wands than Magic Wands are staves. If the magic wand aspect of the staff is limited to only shooting people (or, if said shooting from a staff is not even magical in nature at all), then you have a boom stick, rather than a magic staff.

In Eastern media, the staff is often a Kung Fu weapon, used with much grace and skill (and choreography). Combined with the distance afforded by its long reach, martial artist monks have long been able to smack around roomfuls of mooks completely untouched. As Western audiences rightly recognize the awesomeness of this, it's spreading to Western media as well. The most famous user of the staff in Eastern media is Sun Wukong from the seminal Journey to the West, and thus most staff-users reference Wukong in some way, especially through his not-so-simple staff, the telescoping staff, a related trope.

When the fighters don't actually care as much about the injuries they inflict, or actively try to cause lots of injuries, perhaps the staff really is just a long club. Or a spear without a spearhead.

If the wielder is a martial artist, expect to see a particular special defensive trick.

