You get a young character who is, frankly, pretty awesome at what he does. This person out-performs the grizzled veterans at near everything, whether it's bringing down the monster of the week, commanding the redshirt army into battle, or solving the murder. A few years older and he will be a total badass.

Just one problem: the complete lack of real world experience.This character's talents may serve him well in a professional context, but he still finds himself running into trouble by doing things the superior experience of his less talented predecessors would tell him to avoid. This is often exacerbated by arrogance and pride from the rookie who finds himself outperforming people who have made kicking ass their career. Sometimes he will have a sense of responsibility to use his new abilities to the fullest (not having the patience and foresight more experienced characters have in knowing you can't help anyone if you are dead, of course).

Many, many heroes start off this way. the hero often starts off as the least experienced member of the five-man band, giving him room to grow as a character while tending to ultimately be the most powerful member of his team. Main characters in general have a nasty habit of going beyond their experience levels and relying on raw talent and bravado, which frequently gets the rest of the group into trouble as well. In particularly tragic circumstances, such impetuosity can get a character or his allies killed, with all the emotional torque and lessons about the fragility of youth and the dangers of overestimating talents. It's a frequent source of the mentor occupational hazard.

kid heroes, such as young guns, kid samurai, and cute bruisers, can find themselves falling into this. Add hot-blooded into the mix and you're asking for impetuosity combined with incompetence. In a military setting, this can be one of the defining traits of ensign newbie.

This trope is very closely related to idiot hero, to the point where the two tropes look identical at first glance. There is a subtle difference however. While idiot hero refers to a character who is genuinely intellectually challenged but whose other strengths (Heroism, personality and morality) make him a hero, characters of this trope may be very intelligent, possibly even geniuses, but they don't have enough experience, both in life and in their chosen fields, to make the best of that talent. It's a subtle difference, but an important one. However, an idiot hero can also be skilled, but naive if his usual line of work tends to rely more on instinct and moral certainty than on abstract intelligence, and naturally the lack of intelligence will tend to exacerbate his naïveté.

If they do evolve, they are rather malleable. A bad shock may send them into themselves, creating a zen survivor or knight in sour armour, a character who feels cynically about issues but still can't stop the bold idealistic tendencies from showing through when the chips are down. Or constant steady success may create a full-on badass or all-loving hero. They can easily become a future badass in cases of sacrificial lion or an earlier downer ending where this character survives.

Note that to fit this trope characters have to be:

1) Just as powerful or more powerful than more experienced characters

OR

2) Noticeably remarkable in their skills for their experience level

AND

3) Naïve when it comes to comprehending the world around them, subtle meanings of things, and the like. (These characters are likely to be wide eyed idealists and believe in honour before reason. They are excellent candidates for believing in black and white morality in a more realistic setting where shades of grey are the norm.)

4) While being excellent technical fighters and academically very capable at what they do, they are vulnerable to tactical oversights that only a more experienced character could possibly pick up on.

 The main character of   Azuma Kazuma of  Tamaki of  Negi Springfield from  In the beginning Goku from  Luffy of  Shichika of  Woli from  Teana Landstar of   Dr. Tenma in  This trope is addressed in  Haqua du Lot Herminium of  Pick a  Priscilla from   Mizuki from  Shierke from  Shinji Ikari in  Sensei from  In  In  The  In  Corporal Carrot Ironfoundersson in his first two appearances in   Shannon Foraker of the  Matteo Ta'anari of  Harry Dresden from   Spencer Reid from  River Tam from  Chuck of...  Data from  Dr. Bashir from    Princess Tana from  Sanada Yukimura from   N of   In a strange way, the Brotherhood of Steel in  Yuri of  In  Grace from  Parian in  Aang the Avatar is like this in the first half of  Korra from  In the  Rook Blonko in  Omi of  This can happen in educational tracks that go from high school to university to post-graduate degree without including practical applications of theory driven work.

 This is sometimes the case with Military Officers. Take a newly minted Officer from West Point. He's attended Airborne School, Air Assault School, Ranger School, and had 4 years of Officer training, but when he's put in charge of a platoon of combat-proven soldiers, he will be a bit naïve. The Navy, Air Force, and Marines are no exception.

 There is an old saying in spanish speaking countries: 