What accessory could you possibly add to up your sex appeal 20 notches, show your sensitive side, and look really cool? A rose, of course! It's a flower, so it's beautiful and romantic like you, but it has thorns, and you're no wuss. Hold it between your teeth, if you want to up your sex appeal a few more notches. Perfect!

And in some cases, it can be weaponized into a whip and/or petal storm!

Generally, this is used to indicate a character is bishōnen, a girly but badass man or a casanova, although there are a few female examples out there (like the vamp).

Sometimes, the color, number, and position of the roses can be used for foreshadowing. This usually happens in reference to the Victorian custom of "the language of flowers," in which different flowers were given different meanings, allowing a bouquet to transmit a sort of informal coded message.

Also, in Japan, gay and bisexual men are referred to as barazoku, ("rose tribe"), so roses in Japanese media can also mean an entirely different kind of coded message.

Compare and Contrast the tragic rose.

  Kurama in  Hideaki Asaba from  Tuxedo Kamen/Mask in  Zero, The Winged Knight from  James/Kojiro in   George from  Tamaki in   Dante in  Kenshin from  George de Sand from  Treize Khushrenada of  Both of the above owe something to flamboyant Neo Zeon  The   Played with in a Valentine's Day episode of  In  Max Galactica in  Mid-boss from  In  Whoever looks upon  Several would-be crime bosses who opposed  Parodied with  Dudley from  Jean Pierre in  Theo from  Gackto from  Quite fitting for his character,   Muraki Kazutaka in  Himuro Saeki in  Tatewaki Kuno from  Creed from  Guiche from  In  Kenshin of  Daisuke Ono during his brief stint as Minoru Shiraishi's replacement on  Sebastian from  The film  As can be implied from his name, the  Gomez from the first   Endrance, from the  Dist the Rose from  Jun Kurosu from  In  In  Soukichi Banba (Big One) from  Don Flamenco in  Humorously used when  Sir Richard Rose, the  In  In one episode of   In   In  Possibly referenced by  Flat the mouse, in  The handsome    Karl Lichter von Randoll of  Yoshimori of  Kamen Rider Caucasus, the   In  In  In  In  In  In   In  In  In  Wonder-Blue's transformation in   Sakazaki Yuuya of   Instead of James/Kojiro, mentioned above, Jessie/Musashi of  Chie in  Kodachi Kuno in  Poison Ivy in  Charlotte from the  Crusadermon of  The Devilstar assassins of  The song "Masochism Tango" mentions that the singer, a man,

 From  Shinku in  Aki Izayoi from  In  Shirin in   A rose is the special weapon for the Chibi, the Grass Guardian, in  Lady Rachel Alucard of the  In  Alyssa of  Beatrix from  Koishi Komeji from  Parodied in an episode of  Most versions of the " Princess Briar Rose, in the first  In  Milky Rose (blue rose) and the Pretty Cure 5 (red rose) from  Downplayed in  In   The most famous     Gertrude Stein:  Dancers in   In  In   John Boyle O'Reilly's " 