alice (or sometimes bob) is trying a bit too hard to make herself look good at the expense of other women (and maybe men), claiming superiority on the ground that she doesn't have as much sex as they do, doesn't dress as sexily as they do, or something like that. Accusing other women (or sometimes men) of being "skanks", "sluts", "cheap" and whatnot.

Often a tragic character portrayed as being overly prudish as a kind of sour grapes: "i deny myself my sexuality, so why don't these people do the same thing?". Thus "Sour Prudes". For extra irony, Alice might be pulling the entitled to have you card, based on being such a good girl. This can be especially tragic if she lives in a society where women are economically dependent on men, making her come across as justified — or at least as a troubled sympathetic bigot who is only trying to survive in no woman's land. In some cases, this might go hand in hand with marital rape license. For example, let's say that Alice is outraged at Charlene for saying that oral sex is okay — and that the real reason for this outrage is that Alice fears that Charlene's opinion may encourage Alice's husband Bob to try to pressure Alice into having oral sex.

If this Alice has taken a vow of chastity (and she usually hasn't), she might also be a strawman political of the conservative kind. Note that a character who chose to be chaste — without being a jerkass about it — is not this trope. If a character is accused of being this trope by another character, without being portrayed as such by the narrative, it counts as "invoked" and does not go on character sheet pages.

Compare my girl is not a slut, internalized sexism, lie back and think of england, heteronormative crusader, slut shaming, madonna-whore complex, and sex is evil and i am horny. Contrast ethical slut, for happiness and safe, sane and consensual.

 Yozora from      In  In  In  In  A lot of   Both Ziva and Kate could be prudish toward Tony in  Angela in  Chance from  In  Inverted in one episode of 