The standard '50s father was born in a small town in the US Mid-West (or, as in the case of the quote above, the English Home Counties). His parents were farmers of some sort, or perhaps his father was a druggist. a veteran, he put himself through college (possibly through the g.i. bill) and is now a white-collar professional... unless he's the proprietor of some small local business (pharmacy, shoe store, grocery, etc.).

The standard '50s father is solid, dependable, and responsible. He's happily married to his wife, whom he met when they were both teenagers. And if the love he gives his children is slightly distant, it is no less heartfelt for being so. He's an upstanding citizen who rarely swears or drinks to excess, if he smokes he smokes a pipe, and attends a regular "bowling night" with his friends ("darts" if British). If he plays cards it will be bridge, probably in partnership with his wife, not poker in a dingy room full of cigar smoke. He wears a shirt and tie with dress pants and a cardigan during the day (even while he cuts the lawn on Saturday morning) and sleeps in sensible cotton pajamas. He's buttoned-down, calm, wise, and thoughtful. Only three things can rattle him: his wife going into labor, his wife deciding that she wants a job (assuming it's her idea and not his), or the threat of losing his job (the last two together might send him into open hysterics).

When played straight, the standard '50s father's primary function is to offer object lessons and moral instructions to the various members of his family. When played for laughs, he's the butt of jokes and the perfect example of dorkishness. When played darker and edgier, he's often the male version of a stepford smiler, hiding his neuroses, insecurities, and other issues behind the fatherly facade. Note that he is never played straight anymore, since such overt displays of patriarchy are no longer generally acceptable, although the zeal with which writers try to subvert and avert this trope carries its own unfortunate implications that audiences simply won't accept a husband or father who's anything other than stupid and/or violent.

Husband to the house wife. Father to the seemingly wholesome '50s girl and the all-american boy.

