Conflict drives stories. This is a central axiom of fiction. It's why the more conflicted and nuanced a character, relationship, or plot, the more involved the viewer will become. Characters themselves must have some conflict to overcome, be it internal or external, to engage a narrative. This is why when a story focuses on a group of heroes, it is the most dynamic of them that garner the most attention and love. Pity that's rarely the leader.

leaders in fiction tend to have two simultaneous burdens on them both in and out of the story: outside of the story they must be the everyman as a reader's stand in; they can't be too distinctive without alienating some audience members after all. So they end up sucking because we suck. Inside the story they have to bear the qualities necessary to lead. So their temperament must be emotionally balanced, serious and morally upright to keep their teammates in check. Effectively, they don't have the ambiguity of the other heroes. You know that he's not going to fall to the dark side or lose, so his conflicts are less interesting than those not as protected by their morals or plot armor.

Those being led are under no such yoke. They're free to be a rebellious spirit with a dark and troubled past, a carefree cloud cuckoo lander or any kind of character under the sun. Proof of concept: part of being the lancer is an increased likelihood of making ensemble dark horse. the hero has no choice in the matter; if he wants his party to function he has to become the generic guy.

In a long-running series or mythos, the standardized leader stands out most for not being able to change. And when we say change, we don't even mean his character development. Writers and designers may not even be able to change the Heroes look without backlash from fans who can only accept the original flavor. The standardized leader is trapped in time.

Averting this trope is not impossible. In fact some characters are magnetic heroes precisely because they're quirky and hot-blooded. Heck, some writers will see that second paragraph and think that any character capable of balancing that many variables would make for an Oscar role, making mr. ensemble donut a delicious jelly filled donut thanks to hidden depths. He just happens to be a nice guy on top.

Compare jack of all stats and the the red mage.

