A form of lawful stupid, where a character insists that girls should be protected, not involved in the fight — that they should just stay in the kitchen! Never mind if the girl might be far more capable than the guy in question, they're girls, and that's what counts!

Nowadays, when this trope is invoked, this character is unlikely to be treated sympathetically for his opinion. He may get himself killed when his "protection" does more harm than good, get an aesop from seeing the girls fight (if it's a one-episode affair), or have the women he's holding back label him as the load and decide that they should just eat gilligan. Occasionally, the chivalry will be played as sweet and more or less well-intentioned, but still comes off as misguided. Sometimes there will be an unfortunate broken aesop wherein our white knight is criticised for suggesting that the women should be protected, only for these particular women to prove that they really did need protecting.

This attitude is (still, unfortunately) prevalent in the real world. The US military, for example, officially barred women from direct combat until 2013 with this trope as the excuse, believing that male troops would be too distracted protecting their female squad members or turn into loose cannon killers if they got hurt, destroying their cohesiveness as a fighting force; they didn't allow women in combat zones at all until the 1990s.

When it comes to cultural bias, things are less pretty and there is no chivalry involved, especially if this stance comes from male fans judging female characters. Apart from the usual projection of one's own (bad) experience with women, male fans who use this trope contend that a woman just can't be as badass as a man, just can't achieve anything by herself and that women fighting each other looks too titillating and ridiculous to actually be taken seriously. In short, women's only acceptable behavior according to such fans is extreme doormat or else their impact on the story will always be negative.

Even with the plethora of anime and manga series with physically strong female leads, this trope is still seen in Japan, as old gender roles still linger. In the west, the prevalence of more conservative, old-fashioned social mores keep the amount of strong females low, although that is changing. The prevalence of the girl-show ghetto also has its influences.

It should be noted that "Stay In The Kitchen" is a non-indicative name; the trope deals not with demands that women cook, but with incidents where men (in their misguided chivalry) attempt to protect women from danger by insisting that they stay uninvolved or only involve themselves on the periphery (and in doing so, act on the tacit assumption that women cannot protect themselves or fight competently). This has obvious sexist implications for women, but it also has sexist implications for men; specifically that loss of male life is less tragic than loss of female life.

Often a form of innocent bigotry — the character who wants women to Stay In The Kitchen frequently means well and may be genuinely unaware that some women might find the idea insulting. Compare no guy wants an amazon, wouldn't hit a girl, and you go girl, men act, women are, and the tropes on acceptable feminine goals and traits. Contrast men are the expendable gender and girl powered. The inverse of this trope, more or less, is real women don't wear dresses.

