Some foods are just far more likely to show up as a hated (or outright universally hated) food for a character, be they picky eaters or not. Weird allergies are a form of televisually transmitted disease.

The foods which generate foreign queasine falls into this trope by default.

It is not being forced to eat a food generally considered disgusting in one's culture, that's alien lunch or eat that.

Strangely enough, there's a reason certain foods, such as liver and leafy greens, tend to show up on a lot of kids' "Most Hated" lists—they actually taste different to children, and generally, they taste worse. Children are more receptive to bitter compounds in foods than adults (likely an evolutionary measure to prevent us from dying of plant poisoning while young), and tend to be put off by the bitter taste. Also, about 25% of people are "supertasters," having a higher concentration of taste buds than others: they tend to be repulsed by sprouts, spinach, coffee, alcohol, grapefruit, green tea, olives, soy, chili, soft drinks and tonic water. 50% are medium tasters, who have "normal" likes and dislikes, and 25% are non-tasters, who don't mind anything. Another reason children grow up hating vegetables is that parents often overcook them, removing much of the taste, texture and nutrients in the process.

Compare if it tastes bad, it must be good for you, does not like spam, haggis is horrible, and you're drinking breast milk. If the character is unaware of what they've eaten until it's too late, that's "i ate what?".

 Blue cheese, especially stinky Gorgonzola.

 UHT milk is looked down upon in Europe and elsewhere.

 Jokes about Limburger cheese are common due to its very strong smell. It doesn't help that it literally smells like feet (the same compounds responsible for foot smell are found in Limburger)

 Whiskey. The fact that it's flavored by wood doesn't help matters.

 Coconut is very frequent; this is probably from how old (1990s and earlier) "coconut" filling for chocolates was acrid, foul, and not very coconut-like. The stringy texture certainly didn't help.

 Raisins are a common one.

 Puffed rice cakes, the tough, flavorless staple food that Americans on diets have to suffer through. Expect jokes comparing them to coasters, as well maybe a joke about "putting a little something on them for flavor," which is usually something like cheese or bacon.

 Anchovies have their own  As recently the 70s, tongue was frequently foisted on unsuspecting kids because it was the cheapest cut of meat on the market. That's where it got its stock yuck status from (there's a famous scene in one of the  For that matter, it seems like most of the meat from any given carcass (be it beef, pork, chicken or anything else) that is readily consumed is the skeletal muscle while most of the organs and other body parts are usually met with disgust. Mostly due to reminding people that it was once a living animal. However, depending on the culture and the resourcefulness of the chef, all of these parts can be used in something rather then letting it go to waste. Oxtail soup is a good example. There's also a sect of chefs and foodies who are trying to bring organ meat back into chic status.

 Liver in particular tends to get a bad rap, usually in any work of fiction where parents try to make children eat it. Despite the fact that it's a delicacy in some places (like France, Germany, South Africa, and Lebanon, where they have dishes where it's prepared  For Norwegians (and Americans of Norwegian descent), lutefisk tops the list. It's cod soaked in lye until it resembles fish-flavored gelatin. To make it more bearable, it's usually drowned in butter and wrapped in potato flatbread called  For some people, any fish at all is gross.

 Escargot is often viewed unfavorably outside of Europe, as the thought of eating snails makes a lot of people uncomfortable. It's one of the very few foods that  In an inversion of the usual trope, hot dogs and chicken nuggets are a favorite of many children and picky eaters... Until they find out how they're made and what they're made with. They'll end up being put off by these foods when they're adults.

 The Scottish dish,  There are other meat loaf dishes similar to though less famous than haggis that get the same sort of reaction. Scrapple is of Pennsylvania Dutch origin and is made out of cornmeal and finely ground pork trimmings - "everything but the oink". Goetta is made out of pig parts and steel cut oats rather than cornmeal, and is very popular around the Cincinnati Ohio area.

 Fruitcake in general (at least in the United States; "Christmas cake" (no, not  The classic British Stock Yuck is the Pot Noodle, which is borderline inedible without precision preparation.  Rhubarb Pie. Frequently used by  Garlic & Parsley Pizza is used (again, often by Disney Comics) as the punchline of "a disgusting version of something that is usually delicious" jokes similar to the rhubarb pie mentioned above.

 Brussels sprouts, and other greens like broccoli, cauliflower or spinach. The quote at the top of the page is from a  Oddly enough, in Japan  Turnips.

 Alton Brown of  The canned version of anything here, and everything that isn't. If it's good, they've found a way to ruin it. If it's bad, Eldritch rites have been employed to keep it in stasis, and what they sacrificed was what little the vegetable had that was worth preserving.

 Tofu, especially in the context of those accustomed to a Western diet forced to eat healthier. However it's the  As well as  Lima beans.

 Mushrooms. To many people, they look horrible unprepared, and the fact there are poisonous ones in the wild which can kill you is enough to put anybody off. There's also the fact that they start off as mold.

 The Stock Yuck for children in Japan is green bell peppers.

 In  In  In  Vegemite has a fierce reputation for being  Even chocolates aren't spared from this trope. Every box will have an undesirable piece, often the one filled with orange creme or coconut (see Fruits for more regarding coconut). Sometimes one character searches futilely for the legend.

 Black Jelly beans.

 Licorice, especially the aniseed variety.

 Candy Hearts. Either due to the sappy love messages, or their chalk-like texture.

 Candy corn, likely due to the 