

Some true neutral people are devoted to the balance between good and evil - They fight only because the forces of evil grow too strong. Some, however, are ''militantly'' neutral; so devoted to not taking sides that they lash out against both Good and Evil without distinguishing between friend or foe. This usually takes the form of always siding with the underdog; the moment one side gains the upper hand, they'll pull a face-heel turn (or a heel-face turn) to make sure both sides are 'equal'. This can lead to a very unreliable fellow and a wild card whose unpredictable morals lead his former allies to cut him down despite his protests that he was only following his heart.

'Stupid Neutral' people tend to think of morality as balancing a metaphysical checkbook; any evil deed can be 'cancelled out' by committing an equally good deed. No remorse or atonement is needed; to these people, there is no moral event horizon past which their actions cannot be forgiven by good works (or evil works, as the case may be). In short, these people are the types who will build an orphanage and then "balance it out" by burning down the orphanage across the street. This pattern of kicking the dog and then stopping to pet it immediately afterwards just results in a very neurotic dog... and a very confused audience.

This type of 'stupid neutral' may occur in video games with a karma meter that offers no true middle ground between 'complete monster' and 'the paladin'. So the 'neutral' route, if it even exists, ends up consisting of doing enough good and evil deeds (with no regards to common sense or reason) to balance the meter in the middle. Or, you know, not doing anything, but where's the fun in that?

May consider themselves an enforcer of tall poppy syndrome or status quo is god — things are fine as they are, and anyone getting big ideas is just going to upset things in the long run...

There is also the reverse of this in the other type of neutral, so neutral that they refuse to try to get out of the burning building.

May be considered an unstable middle ground between lawful stupid, chaotic stupid. Taken to an extreme, this character can become omnicidal neutral. See also neutrality sue.

