More than a few people have recognized the fridge logic in the behavior of the average lawful stupid character. After all, smiting someone merely because your magic radar told you he was evil seems more sociopathic than heroic to most. Someone can be evil without being a threat; maybe they're just out shopping, or dream of ruling the world, but don't necessarily want to harm anyone, or are working on their good-impairement issues as a regular in the local monsters anonymous meetings. In order to avoid this however, some people take things too far to the other side; resulting in all-loving hero taken to its illogical extreme.

The Stupid Good character is "good" to the point of being unable to comprehend that someone else might be bad. As such, she's a friend to all living things, unliving things, and things that ought not live. In short: good, but in a bad way.

This often extends to such utter pacifism that they refuse to kill, attack, or even defend themselves from anything. While most people would flee or fight back when faced with a foe which cannot be reasoned with, this person will attempt to talk down the enemy even as they're charging with swords drawn, howling for their heads. And while actual pacifist characters can make this work with their devotion to pacifism actually being challenged, Stupid Good characters bring the holier than thou trope into play, finding their pacifism easy in even the most violent and desperate of situations.

This is the kind of person who would attempt to convince the devil himself that his evil crusade is wrong and that he and his good counterpart should resolve their differences with a kind word and a handshake. It is difficult, if not impossible to reason with hardened criminals or terrorists of any sort (at least, in most cases, without a credible threat of force that this sort of personality would naturally be unwilling to provide), both in reality and in fantasy. It gets even more ridiculous when one tries negotiating with entities whose goals include the conquest/destruction/domination of the world, or pure manifestations of evil. Yet the Stupid Good character attempts to convert the villain to the side of good using the power of friendship anyway — cue everyone complaining when the predictable bloodbath ensues.

The other players often see this kind of character as a nuisance, especially when they just want to crack some heads and she won't let them because she doesn't want to make orphans of the "cute little baby orcs". Such a player may be bringing too much of a rigid stance into an action-adventure series where creatures can be always chaotic evil, and thus may be ruining the other players' fun. They don't want to have a huge moral quandary on their hands every time enemies attack.

Suffice to say, this isn't really the intended way to play a paladin either (though the Book of Exalted Deeds did provide vows of non-violence for those who wanted to play a pacifist character). The Book of Exalted Deeds didn't provide so much advice for these players (indeed, they left a paladin to choose between "destroying evil and honoring love" when said love was between two always chaotic evil succubi), but they did indicate a good character could ask "How big is that dragon, and does it have any friends?" with an eye towards knowing if they stand a chance at all. Guess wizards of the coast thought it was more important to avoid being miko miyazaki than it was to avoid being piffany.

In some settings, however, Stupid Good behavior may actually work — though these settings also tend to be so high on the idealistic end of the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism that they crap sunshine and puke rainbows. The purity sue also has a tendency to convert any villain — no matter how loathsome — to the side of Light.

This approach can even work on occasion in more cynical works, but in a completely different way: A character may turn out to be a fluffy tamer, befriending things that have been assumed to be always chaotic evil, but are actually reluctant monsters or non malicious monsters responding to violence with violence. In truely cynical works, this may still actually work, but go horribly right: the monster may be so taken with the Stupid Good character that it decides to give him a hug, The gentle giant may be a lethal klutz, or they may discover that nature is not nice when one of their new friends eats another new friend. Arguably the darkest variant is when hands off my fluffy crosses paths with a crowd carrying torches and pitchforks chanting burn the witch!.

One fairly awesome way that a Stupid Good Fluffy Tamer can be played completely straight even in the most cynical of works with little to no narm, however, is by a pairing that results in a badass and child duo. In a death world, this is typically the only way a child or equivalently naive character could plausibly survive, and the mere existance of a wide-eyed idealist can be enough to rouse an antihero into a knight in sour armor, devoting themselves to the preservation of this innocence.

If becoming good results in Stupid Good, see hero ball.

Despite the implications, not actually related to dumb is good, which is where a lack of intelligence means a person is innately inclined to be good, as opposed to taking Good to such extremes as to act in a stupid manner (so this is more along the lines of good is dumb).

Not necessarily a perfect mirror to stupid evil. Many fictional characters (and real people) see good as being worthy of pursuit for its own sake, even when it seems illogical; evil characters are expected to place self-interest above the desire to merely be perceived as "evil". After all, part of being evil is not caring about what other people think about you (in most cases). However there is no universal agreed-upon-by-everyone "good" or "bad".

Compare honor before reason.

