When a TV character is meant to be completely, irretrievably unhinged, and it's inconvenient (as it would be in 95% of television scenes) to have them exhibit typical deranged behavior such as detached wandering, violent outbursts or obsessive drawing/crocheting/self-mutilation/etc, the general method for conveying their insanity is to have them constantly spout rambling incoherent phrases, e.g. "The avenue is clear and we must use it to convert the extra limbs - not yet though, not until the pastor has been distracted, or do they have the right parts? White fish elephant man which was lettuce matrix!"

Quite transparent and distracting, for the most part.

Talkative Loons can sometimes actually be misunderstood waif prophets; it can be hard to tell the difference between the two. If the talkative loon happens to be a beautiful young woman, she may also be the ophelia. Occasionally some infallible babble might slip out of them, but sturgeon's law applies to the remaining ninety percent, and there's no way to tell which is which.

Talkativeness that takes the form of a single phrase repeated ad nauseam is a madness mantra.

Note that this sort of behavior is a real symptom of certain real mental illnesses, particularly schizophrenia (psychiatrists call this kind of talk from a schizophrenic patient "word salad" or "schizophasia") but it is far from universal, even in schizophrenics. In the real world, the insane do not, as a general rule, identify themselves quite so easily and conveniently. Of course, they might not be crazy. Just brain damaged and might be suffering from aphasia.

See also word salad philosophy and cloud cuckoolander. If they're the main character, try through the eyes of madness. A similarly disjointed title is a word salad title; the musical equivalent is word salad lyrics. Can often be caused by intoxication ensuing. The babble they spit out might include an ice-cream koan occasionally.

Not to be confused with what you get if you cross miss chatterbox with shirley the loon.

