A stock phrase that strikes terror in the hearts of single parents and parental substitutes the world 'round. (Can be gender flipped, but usually is the father.)

Generally indicates that the child, who has no memories of the parent, has an unrealistic view of disappeared dad (or missing mom). As such, particularly hard on the child with a villainous parent, or even a no hero to his valet father. But hearing tales about, or actually meeting, the father, is almost always a shock.

However, if the child has heard the parent vilified, it can lead to his learning that his parent was better than he had been told. (If not perhaps all that he had dreamed of.) This may lead to a "Your father would be so proud of you." Bonus points if the child has recently done things that were very brave or noble, and, when he asks about his father the response is "you remind me of him"

Or, of course, both. As the page quotes show.

If the child knew the parent, but parental abandonment happened after, the child will want to know about changes since then — as when a father went to war and the child wants to know about his service.

A parent or other relative who wants him not to turn out like his father, especially when it's dangerous, will resist as long as possible. Unfortunately, this usually results only in the mysterious parent taking on the allure of forbidden fruit — which may result in a harder than usual crash.

In cases of parental abandonment, the child is usually curious about only one parent, to simplify the plot. Perhaps he knew one parent but not the other, but sometimes, he is just fixated on one — usually the father.

muggle foster parents usually try to evade this, partly because it brings up secret legacy, partly because they think his safety lies in being locked out of the loop.

If Dad ran off, possibly without even knowing about the kid, Mom is particularly apt to be bitter about it. The child's idealism sets them up for a clash.

If the parent is dead, may overlap with to absent friends for the people telling the child.

dead guy junior may express this about the person he was named for, even if unrelated.

Often happens if child is someone to remember him by.

Not to be confused with tell me about your mother.

