In a group of otherwise good friends, there's one character who's an unrepentant jerkass to everyone else. Or, if they aren't downright mean or cruel, they may be so stupid or just plain weird, that it's embarrassing to be seen with them. In any case, asking "Why are they even friends with him?" is a perfectly legitimate question. It can usually be answered with one of the following explanations:

Seniority — They've known this person the longest. They may be the Proximity — They're neighbours, classmates, family members, or coworkers and simply can't be rid of them.

Necessity — They're worth keeping around Dating — Someone in the group is dating the person and Fear — The last thing you want to do is piss this person off by telling them they can't join in.

Pity — They're such a completely pathetic loser, the group just can't bring themselves to kick them to the curb.

Audience Popularity — Sometimes a jerkish Supervision — The disliked character is too dangerous or irresponsible to be left to their own devices.

Caring — Deep down, the group does care (or the disliked character cares about them).

It's not even that their friends aren't aware of their behavior, either. They're perfectly aware the person is a jerk, or a geek, or a ditz, and will frequently treat them as such based on their behavior. They still get included in the group nonetheless.

In some cases, it's discovered that the group really do care about this friend and vice versa. In other words, "They may be a pain in the butt, but they're our pain in the butt". Often uttered right before such lines as "You mess with them, you mess with all of us!" or "We're not leaving anyone behind!" The character may have a breakout episode that explains the reason for their attitude, or reveals a human side that never showed before (such as a cute hobby).

Compare vitriolic best buds and with friends like these..., where this kind of attitude is usually limited to one or two select members of the group as opposed to being the opinion of the group as a whole.

If The Friend Nobody Likes is a protagonist or otherwise portrayed sympathetically, he may instead become the woobie. The Friend may also be the gadfly if they aren't an up-and-out jerk.

See also my friends... and zoidberg, no accounting for taste (when a romantic couple are similarly incompatible), and token evil teammate.

