

There are two parallel definitions of a gimmick:

 A cheat; either a method of doing something that appears impossible, or some device used for cheating.

 A feature that distinguishes something (in this case, a character or series) from the competition (with strong connotations of not adding any functionality or value).

This is about that second, as applied to characters.

The power of sheer gimmickry, when properly used, cannot be underestimated; a properly executed gimmick can make a character truly memorable.

The true definition of a gimmick is if an alternate universe or reboot equivalent (or a captain ersatz) isn't "really" that character without the gimmick, then that's this.

Unlike actors, the large majority of professional wrestlers don't really have character roles but rather are reacting to where they are placed in a book, what spots they are given, how an audience reacts and just use gimmicks to make things more interesting. After all, you can't help but react the way you really would, but what if you decided to react to everything in the most negative way you can possibly perceive it? You are going through a rough patch so why not use it? Maybe you strive to react in the ways you think will be best for your merchandise sales? If nothing else, people will not have to think hard to understand why someone would act in such a way. Even if your gimmick is that of a survivor from the lost city of Atlantis, you had better react to all things as if you are a survivor from Atlantis. If the gimmick is not a part of you, it has to become part of you or will likely fail.

To a professional wrestler, finding something within to magnify and project outward is almost as important as being physically conditioned, almost as much as wrestling in of itself. Something that immediately lets fans pick one out from amongst their peers can give fans something to latch on to and believe in. Drawing people's attention is the first step to drawing crowds. Interest can make crowds want to see one win... or get one's head beat in. So long as they are interested enough to tune in or buy tickets, you win something. Simply dying a few hairs blonde did wonders for Sputnik Monroe. randy savage's memorable voice and odd way of speaking hyped fans for his matches that much more. And, of course, george wagner had people speculating as to whether he was gay or straight.Most common in comic books and professional wrestling, but can show up elsewhere. See also idiosyncrazy, for when a character's gimmick is driven by his insanity, rather than out of universe considerations. Compare the dancing bear.

