The member of an ensemble cast with no distinctive physical or personality traits. They may be smart, but not as smart as the smart guy. They may be strong, but not as strong as the big guy. In short, there is pretty much nothing remarkable or distinctive about them. They would be the everyman or standardized leader ... if they were the main character.

However, they are not the main character. Someone else is the hero and The Generic Guy is stuck in a secondary role. Thus, the generic guy will typically get very little to do or eventually be written out of the series.

As one can see below, there is a tendency for these characters to be token minorities, for several reasons. First, they cannot be the star because they are a token. Second, since they have no traits at all, they don't have negative traits; thus, the writers can claim that they are positive role models. Additionally, if your generic guy is the only minority character in the opening credits, there will be heck to pay and cries of "racism!" from moral guardians if the producers try to cut the generic guy, meaning that they're much less likely than "regular" generic guys to suffer from chuck cunningham syndrome a few seasons in.

If the character is stuck in this role despite their best efforts, then it is a case of i just want to be special. If they take the lack of recognizable traits to a level where it becomes an advantage on its own right, then they are the nondescript. If the character seems to be almost superhumanly normal, it might be a ridiculously average guy. A featureless protagonist is a protagonist that has had this done to the extreme in a video game. In a video game with many playable characters, this character will be the jack of all stats. Compare why do you keep changing jobs? and unfazed everyman. Also compare the artifact, a character or trait that no longer adds anything to the story but is kept around because it's expected to be there. If there is more than one in a work, they can easily become those two guys.

