A good way to mark your hero as an intellectual is to stick him on the far side of a pair of nerd glasses. A good way to make your character as a badass is to kick some ass. We also all know that guys who wear glasses can never kick asses. It's contractually forbidden. Thus when an intellectual is about to kick ass, the first thing he has to do is take off his glasses. (See: Male version of flung clothing) For an additional humourous/intellectual touch, the characters may be shown taking especial care to put their glasses away in their pocket or in some other safe place, before commencing the violence.

Characters may also take their glasses off before kissing, because some guys don't make passes at girls who wear glasses (see beautiful all along and the glasses gotta go). Also because a pair of specs might get in the way. (And TWO pairs certainly will.)

One strange side effect is that if a character does this enough times, they may stop wearing their glasses altogether. Rarely is the fact that the character may have needed the prescription in the first place brought up, it's usually hand waved that they eventually got contacts. While the loss usually represents the character taking a step forward in their attitudes, fans who are into that sort of thing can find it frustrating.

Given that such characters will at some point be shown to be blind without 'em, it may seem strange that removing their glasses renders the characters into action heroes, rather than rendering them, well, blind, but it seems to work. May occasionally make sense if the hero willingly removes her/his glasses to limit her/his fighting prowess.

There are other, more practical reasons for this trope, of course; it is, after all, not a bad idea to remove your glasses before doing things where they might fly off or get broken, and preventing unwanted reflections from the lenses becomes troublesome during martial arts. And then there's the fact that keeping any easily shattered material near your eyes during a fight is a really bad idea (which is probably where the taboo against punching a man in glasses came from). And naturally, you might want to remove your glasses to fire your eye beams.

Note that it isn't enough just to have glasses, you have to have nerd glasses for this trope to apply. Some characters have scary shiny glasses or cool shades, and they are most certainly not more powerful when the glasses come off. Except of course, when the glasses are the distinguishing trait for the character, in which case, you should probably back off. quickly.For the B-movie version, see glasses pull. As the examples show, inversions in which a character becomes more badass when they put their nerd glasses on (because now they can actually see clearly to fight) are also common.

