A princess or a queen who is the supreme ruler of her country. She is usually beautiful but certainly clever, strong-willed and charismatic and she cares about her land and her people.

The problem is: They're at war, have a drought or a bad case of corrupt administration. She wants to protect her people but they don't want to follow a woman, or someone so young or anyone at all.

So she has to make them follow her through cunning and the force of her personality, adhering to protocol and making it work for her. she has to dress perfectly, speak perfectly, be perfectly calm, never falter, never show "weakness". She has to think of and counter every possible intrigue and strategy. She may have to execute some of her more evil or unruly subjects and send others to war without batting an eyelash. Her choice of husband will have severe political consequences.

She finds it tiring.

An important part of this character is that she isn't in a trusting and happy relationship as this would make her a lot less alluringly lonely... Naturally this sad state can change over the course of the story.

This trope can be done with a male regent as well, but a woman just looks that much more exquisitely tragic and beautiful in this role. For the male public there can also be something erotic about such a character. Who wouldn't love to make her laugh, ease her out of her stifling robes and keep her company in her leader's loneliness? Care is needed, however, as don't you dare pity me! may come into effect. suddenly suitable suitor may also be required, leading to plentiful anguish before the discovery.

Compare the ermine cape effect, which she takes full advantage of, and deadly decadent court, which is often her greatest threat. She can sometimes be seen as a royal version of the stepford smiler. See also the wise prince - a tragic male royal.

In terms of the ranks of authority tropes, the tropes that are equal are god save us from the queen!, the high queen, the good king and president evil. The next steps down are the evil prince, prince charming, prince charmless, warrior prince, the wise prince, and all princess tropes. The next step up is the emperor. silk hiding steel is near the bottom; she's not in charge and not supposed to have authority, but uses similar methods to pursue her goals.

If the character does not have these duties thrust upon her, but rather freely chooses to take them on, chances are she's a go-getter girl or an iron lady.

It's not easy, being queen.

