After his heroic feat, the person he's rescued or helped, or a whole crowd of spectators, gushes over the hero.

His response? It may be acted, or spoken, or merely thought, but it's summoned up in a Stock Phrase: "think nothing of it" or "Don't Mention It". If this is his job, or routine to him, "all a part of the job". If they praise him, dismissing a compliment sometimes occurs, and if more tangible gratitude is forthcoming, keep the reward will appear.

Motives vary widely and may characterize in more detail than the heroism alone. Many of them are not mutually exclusive:

 He's  It's  He's embarrassed to receive all the credit, when others contributed. He may try to share; success is unlikely, but it is often appreciated. Again likely for  The person he rescued was a  The rescuer and the rescued are in the middle of doing something, which still needs to be done and must get on with it; there is no time for gratitude. "Thank me later" may be said. Especially if the rescue will be only temporary if they don't succeed.

 The rescued had, by previous actions, put the rescuer deeply in his debt. Gratitude for something which isn't even reciporal return is embarrassing.

 He was responsible for the original problem and felt that he  His motives were more self-interested than the rescued person seems to think. Will often state such motives.  He felt more fear than anyone realized, and is embarrassed to be hailed for what he thinks is a mere facade of heroism. Likely for the  He did it for a lark, because he loves  He's  His reputation for misanthropy is valuable to him. He is prone to ask that no one spread the news. Likely for  His heroic action violated some  If he becomes  It looked harder than it was, or the gratitude is disproportionate, and he's embarrassed. Perhaps he genuinely doesn't understand why heroic acts that come so easily to him  He wanted to save the person, but won't admit it; this is the subtrope  He  He's trying to seem modest. Likely a less honest  After an  Ironically, he can express this in some form or another after it is clear that no one is going to recognize what he did. The purer his heroism, the less bitterly he will do so.

 The feat was, or involved actions which were, extremely embarrassing or Catchphrase of the humble hero.

The miles gloriosus is incapable of this, or even understanding that someone might think better of him for it.

The glory hound, even more nastily, is incapable of this regardless of what has been suffered by others to win the victory, until he is certain he has secured the glory for himself, whereupon he may try false modesty. And he rather looks for it in his subordinates. The super trope glory seeker often finds it hard to choke out when the praise is not merited — and never does when it is.

A smug super will be very vocal about how it was nothing... because it was a trivial effort on his part that shows how much better a hero he is, and should be thanked profusely for it by all.

The rule of funny decrees that some people, on hearing this, will act literal-minded — always, of course, when the person doesn't really mean it.

Much like don't you dare pity me! for positive achievements.

Compare grudging thank you, heroic self-deprecation, what you are in the dark, the real heroes. Contrast entitled bastard and wants a prize for basic decency.

