A character becomes successful in an activity, promptly lets success go to their head and then loses the drive that made this character successful in the first place.

Say Bob is a talented singer/songwriter. He got it from years of practice and determination, and eventually gets noticed for it. He gets a cushy contract, and women are all over him. Soon he loses the determination to make good songs, and only cares about the money and the prestige, rejecting the idea of doing it for the art even when he can afford to do potentially unprofitable side projects.

What happens then can vary. He might become a jerkass to his friends, or a jerk to everyone else. He might start losing his skill and have to take drugs just to get on stage. He might lose his contract and his money, and either learn an aesop or spend the rest of his life moping about his glory days. He might even keep all those, and get a job as a music executive where he's totally cynical to anyone new who thinks this is "just about the music".

This can make up entire plots, or just make a backstory for some character who is either the cynic or lost it all. Often happens in a sitcom, sort of overlapping with compressed vice. In this case, losing it all is how the reset button is pressed. This can be truth in television, although many times it's hard to tell, as it's often fans complaining of sell out and it's popular, now it sucks.

Note this doesn't count when Bob just gets caught up in recreational drugs. That's covered under hookers and blow and sex, drugs and rock & roll.

Compare/Contrast i coulda been a contender.

 Mokoyama from   In  A theme in  A theme in      Played with in the second season of   Many stories in the WWF/WWE highlight this trope as the frequent downfall of heels (and occasionally faces) who have been champions for long periods of time. Eventually a combination of arrogance and complacency lands them a defeat at the hands of their title hungry rival.

 This is the plot of  Ace Hardlight in  Seems to happen to at least one Griffin family member at least once a season on   Pirate Captain in  