In fiction, armor is often presented as a piece of everyday attire to be worn wherever you go, like a sweater. RPGs are notoriously bad about this, with characters wearing the same armour for weeks. Often characters even sleep in full battle gear.

In real life, while armor was lighter than you might think, it still could get very hot (especially when backed with mail and padded), and it took time and (most of the time) assistance to remove. In battle, it could become extremely unhygenic: in addition to sweat, people bled inside their armor, and possibly relieved themselves, both because you can't take bathroom breaks in the midst of battle and because a sudden shock can *ahem* loosen the bowels. Armor could be deformed or pierced by a mace, axe, polearm, or hammer, causing serious injuries for the wearer.

Additionally, stainless steel hadn't been invented yet, and armor was really expensive , so it had to be treated carefully even when not damaged in a given battle. As the European ironworking industry gradually expanded to meet the increased demands for iron-based armour and weaponry standard-issue sets of plate became more common but remained extremely expensive items.

So, after a battle or tournament, armor would be removed, cleaned thoroughly, repaired as necessary, and not put back on until the next engagement (shirts of mail or plates sewn onto fabric were sometimes worn under one's outermost layer of clothing, as a pre-gunpowder bulletproof vest, but that's not this trope.)

Some RPGs get around this by having a character in just a breastplate, possibly with shoulder pauldrons, a la Fire Emblem's roy. Still pretty uncomfortable pajamas.

It may be justified in the case of magical armor; the enchantments may be for more than increasing defenses. Another common justification is that it's a clingy costume, and for whatever reason they literally can't take it off.

Often seen in the case of powered armor — which may be justified since the powered armor might be designed to be comfortable for longer periods of wearing, especially if its wearer is a man in the machine. Often a symptom of limited wardrobe. Compare with the ermine cape effect.

Doesn't really apply to bulletproof vests, which certain people actually do wear all day. If someone spends time in the vicinity of a suit of animated armor without knowing its true nature, their working theory will probably be that it's a person wearing 24-hour armor.

