Some people are a magnet of fortune. Some people are constantly beaten up by it. Then there's these guys.

Some characters seem to live in a strange limbo of fortune: They are constantly finding themselves trapped in awful situations, many times without even trying. This would be seen from almost any perspective as rotten luck; but despite all that they always manage to come out of all those problems without a scratch, much less troubled than any reasonable person would expect, or even with the upper hand.

From another perspective: These people have an amazing ability to come clean out of any sort of pickle thrown at them, no matter how unlikely the chances or ludicrous the way. Anyone would say Lady Fortune has them under her wing, except that there's the little fact that they always get themselves into those sorts of situations in the first place, and in fact seem to attract them like honey to bees.

Are they born lucky? Are they born unlucky? It's hard to say. Friends, enemies, and even themselves will be hard pressed to give a straight answer. Answers will probably lean towards the lucky side, since no matter what they still come out alive out of anything; just don't expect that to mean much while they are knee-deep into yet another trouble.

Note that a characters that are lucky in some aspects and unlucky in other completely different ones do not qualify under this trope. The main factor here is that their luck and unluck are at odds in the same circumstances.

If the unlucky events that follow these characters are sufficiently awful, they have a good chance of being a walking disaster area; and if they are strange enough, they can be a weirdness magnet. Compare with the fool, who gets out of dangerous situations by pure dumb luck without even realizing it, as well as plague of good fortune.

 The titular  Touma Kamijou of   Zayne Carrick from the   In Marvel, Rick Jones is a lot like Jimmy Olsen. But then, he's always partially blamed himself for Bruce Banner being turned into the Hulk, and tries to help him (both Banner  The Water Wizard (now called Aqueduct) was an  The title character of  The movie   Rincewind from the  In  Rene Arroy from the  Blake Thorburn, in   In  In the  In  The  In  While every  Tsutomu Yamaguchi is sometimes considered the luckiest man in history because he survived the nuclear attacks on both Hiroshima and Nagasaki. However, he could also be considered the unluckiest man ever because... he was in both Hiroshima and Nagasaki when they were nuked.

 