The result of turning a sergeant rock into a colonel badass (or other officer rank), without having to pass through ensign newbie. The starting point is important here: The character must have several years of experience as an enlisted soldier, before they are made an officer.

Most military forces that make a delineation between enlisted ranks and commissioned officers have mechanisms in place for having an enlisted soldier become an officer. These people are sometimes referred to as "prior enlisted" or "mustangs". How they became so varies. Sometimes they got a field commission, but other times they applied for and were accepted to officer candidate school or equivalent. However, an officer that went up through the ranks is usually an exception among the officers—older, less formal education, and with a very different background.

In the U.S. military, officers from the rank of 2nd Lieutenant through Captain who have prior enlisted experience even have a different pay scale and are paid more than other officers of equal rank who do not have prior service. While there is a low-level rivalry between mustangs, officers who are commissioned through the service academies, and officers who attend Office Training School, there is no doubt that mustangs generally receive more respect sooner from their enlisted subordinates (who appreciate that the mustang understands their perspective) as well as from their commanding officers, who know that the mustang needs much less supervision and training.

Prior enlisted are often characterized as being more blue-collar and down-to-earth than those who started as officers, and in many cases are trusted more by the rank-and-file because of it. This is frequently helped along by the character having seen some action, unlike an ensign newbie who is usually straight from the military academy.

Closely related to rank up. The distinction is twofold: First, someone who came up through the ranks may have done it offscreen, and second, this is specifically promotion from enlisted man to commissioned officer.

