

Although vanilla ice-cream (our protagonist) is delicious all on its own, it is the base of many other great flavors. It plays well with toppings and fixin's, i.e. the supporting cast, without being overwhelmed completely or disallowing the other ingredients from shining through. Thus, a Vanilla Protagonist is a protagonist whose characteristics and background are plainer or simpler compared to the rest of the cast. This type of protagonist serves as a window by which the audience may experience more varied and colorful supporting characters.

The vanilla protagonist will typically be familiar and easily relatable, giving the audience the opportunity to step into their shoes. They will usually not be too much of anything, or vanilla so to speak. The VP acts as foil for other more unique characters the audience will encounter through them. In other words, the other characters drive the story, and the VP is simply the vehicle. The VP may have no voice for this reason.

In video games, when the protagonist is the player character, this can make the main quest line (when it revolves around the protagonist) less appealing than side quests or side-character-related quests.

Since these characters need to be relatively flat by their own merit, they may be unpopular with the fan base but simply being unpopular does not make them this trope. It makes them the scrappy. tropes are tools and having a lead who is a flat or static character isn't necessarily a bad thing if done well. In in video games, for example, it can give a player freedom to shape their character, or to think outside the box. This trope is not for complaining about protagonists one may dislike.Compare lead you can relate to where The Protagonist is modeled after the target audience to better engage them in the story, and audience surrogate, where the protagonist is intentionally left as a blank slate, so that the audience can easily project themselves into the character. Also compare straight man who is normally the stoic to better interact with the plucky comic relief but not necessarily a protagonist at all, and the pinball protagonist, in which the protagonist lacks significant impact to the overall plot and is merely reacting to the other characters' actions.

Not to be confused with designated hero, which is a character who the story plays up as being heroic, but comes off as being distinctly unheroic. Contrast ensemble darkhorse, who is a colorful but minor character.

Compare to the standardized leader.

