







This trope is the reverse of the virgin as portrayed in classical literature. In ancient myths, virgins were often dedicated to some higher purpose. They were supposed to be above such things as lust and passion, upheld as an example that people should strive to follow... and if they fell from this pedestal, boy, did they fall hard. Just ask the goddess Artemis' attendants; if they gave in to the pleasures of the flesh, there was a world of hurt in store when the Boss Lady found out.

But sometime in the 20th century, there has been a sharp reversal. Virginity no longer guarantees virgin power or some higher knowledge; in fact, it often indicates the opposite. Many contemporary characters who are still virgins over the age of consent will be the ditz. The men will be shy to the point of social ineptitude — or so desperate to prove their manhood that they make idiots of themselves. By contrast, female virgins are usually portrayed as hopelessly dim, both in terms of intelligence and social skills. At best, such characters may be good at their jobs and/or book smart, but naive to the point of ignorance (remember, this trope often overlaps with the ingenue).

On the upside, these characters will seldom be downright nasty. While some virgins are inept-but-harmless, most are examples of dumb is good. They're usually sweet-natured and kind - you just wouldn't want them on your quiz team. In fact, their pleasant demeanor is one of the qualities that makes the opposite sex (and sometimes the same sex) want to sleep with them, whether it's because they appreciate these nice qualities... or because they can't resist the challenge of deflowering an "innocent".

It's this plot line that showcases virginity makes you stupid at its worst. A conniving vamp or casanova sets themselves the challenge of sleeping with someone previously thought as pure, untouchable, naive. And their target will almost always fall for it, even when anyone with two functioning brain cells could spot their intentions from a mile away.

The family-unfriendly aesop in this case seems to be that in order to understand how people work, you have to have slept with someone. Clearly, basic common sense, body language, and the word "no" are a poor defense against manipulative bastards with a sex drive. To be fair, generally the (former) virgin's goodness will transform their pursuer into a jerk with a heart of gold... but probably not before they've slept together. In total, sex is good, no questions asked.

Rather than being shamed or punished for losing their virginity, a character is promoted. Their sexual initiation will magically solve all of their personality "problems" and they will usually become more capable, rounded characters.

There are many possible explanations for this trope. It may be part of a larger trend where any form of innocence or optimism is interpreted as foolish. Perhaps it's inconceivable to a sex-orientated media that anyone with half a brain would choose not to have sex. Or maybe a lack of carnal knowledge was taken to mean a lack of knowledge of carnal matters and then extended to any general knowledge as well.

See also: my girl is not a slut and a man is not a virgin. In the context of musical theatre, this character will ALWAYS be the soprano or a tenor boy (frequently called a "dolt-boy"). Compare innocent bigot and innocently insensitive; contrast virgin power. Exceptions to the "nice-but-dim" virgin rule occur when there is a chaste hero or amazon brigade running the show - even then, expect their virginity to be challenged (and more likely than not, relinquished) at some point in the plot. Also see asexuality for portrayals of characters who genuinely don't want sex.

