

A character is a half-human hybrid ('Human' being used loosely,) but the parent races of the two 'halves' are at war, or generally don't get along well. This can present a problem depending on how much the character looks like either one. If he looks nothing like one, he may be able to fit into the other group with ease. If he looks like a mixture of both, however, he likely won't be able to fit in with either group. At best, he'll be teased or shunned for it, possibly becoming an 'evil' loner. At worst, he'll be exiled or possibly even killed. This could even be the villain's start of darkness, if he's hated by both sides enough to plot the eradication of both.

If the two parent races are actually at war, the character will eventually be forced to choose a side to fight for. Depending on what they are, the choice may simply be between good and evil. Other times it may come down to 'the ones that shunned me' vs 'those that accepted me'. Occasionally, the decision is a difficult one, especially if they have friends from both sides. Depending on the cause of the mix, the character may be actively trying to become one side or the other, using the local Phlebotinum.

Related to hunter of his own kind, for most hybrid characters. See also half-breed discrimination. Depending on the situation, a monsters anonymous group may help reconcile or control the warring natures.

  Ichigo in  In  Changelings in  Esmer of The Third  In the  The villainous Scorpius in  Michael of   Toward the beginning of  In  Seymour in  Arc: Twilight of the Spirits had this as a driving plot - a pair of twins, Half Human Hybrids, had been divided at birth. One had grown up amongst the humans, and was fortunate enough to not have any visible signs of his demonic side (At least at first...), while the other one grew up amongst the Deimos, and was visibly half-human, causing him to be ridiculed as a 'Wannabe Deimos'. However, they both eventually rose to lead their respective factions in a war against their other side...

 One of the possible party members in  Glon, from  In Rob Thurman's Cal and Niko series, Cal is half-human, half Auphe (really really really evil fairy). What are the most despised races in the world? Take a guess.

