The Wet Blanket Wife is the love interest (not necessarily a married spouse) that is a constant reminder of how uncool or troubling events in the story are supposed to be. In the caper, she reminds the hero that he promised to retire after that one last job, or is trying to get him out of the game to begin with. In a War Film or fighting series, she's often an actual pacifist who wants her love to stop fighting because she doesn't want to see him hurt or killed. In a superhero story, she chews the main character out for spending too much time crimefighting, or perhaps doesn't even know his secret identity and angrily wonders where he's run off to. In short, the character exists to slow the pace of the story and provide emotional heft.This trope is often paired with the hen pecked husband or parenting the husband, and sometimes the arguments form an awful wedded life between the couple. However, the overlap isn't necessary. A woman tearfully begging her action hero husband not to go do whatever dangerous thing he wants to do to avoid being widowed can be happily married, but she's still trying to get him not to do the awesome thing that the audience paid to see (however justifiably). Scenes involving this kind of wife will involve her fretting or angsting over the events of the story and otherwise reminding the audience how "awful" this is supposed to be.

This is an always female trope, but that doesn't mean there aren't rare male versions. Because of tropes like men are tough and men act, women are, it's usually just assumed that a husband or boyfriend in a heteronormative relationship will be the one advancing the plot.

Compare and contrast the obstructive love interest, who is against anything their significant other tries to do, as a result of misunderstandings, personal insecurities, and any other number of reasons. See also yoko oh no, the girlfriend/wife of an artist that is blamed for destroying their career.

Contrast the battle couple and outlaw couple, who usually avert this trope.

      In  Rosie Perez in   In   Agent Devlin in  Angela Bassett's character in  From  Skyler White of  Fred Yokas from    Ciel in   In  Princess Sally of  