the hero is alone, except, perhaps, for the villain. No one whose opinion he cares about - possibly no one at all - will ever need to know what he does next, and he knows it. Or maybe he just doesn't care what anybody around him thinks of him in general. And there is perhaps a useful but corrupt act that he could commit, reaping the benefit without anyone ever knowing. If he does not do it, the consequences can be severe, even deadly. If the villain is there, he is urging the hero to do it, which possibly involves cleaning up any possible witnesses. Very likely, he is at his darkest hour, even on the verge of the despair event horizon.

The stock phrase is usually something like "No one will ever know." It can taunt him with the futility of his heroism (perhaps even telling him that he will die alone, unmourned, with no one attending his funeral, unremembered), or tempt him with the rewards of villainy, even telling him that the heroic act will be interpreted as villainy, and vice versa. A more foolish and friendly villain may urge it's not cheating unless you get caught.

What happens next?

Well, the audience finds out whether he really is the hero.

Usually he is, because doing the right thing in the face of great temptation is a mark of great heroism, whereas doing the wrong is not a mark of great villainy. On the contrary — see kick the dog. When the wrong path is taken, this is usually the start of darkness, to lead to more impressively villainous acts. Occasionally, it is to prove can't get away with nuthin' : a character loots a corpse, only to discover it can be identified.

Particularly hard for the glory seeker. May prove to be a secret test of character. May also prove a great shock to a villain who was convinced she was a slave to pr and not so different.

If a villain is urging that no one will ever know, three responses are possible, depending on the hero's character:

 "I'll know." (The hero can't live with himself if he fails this test)

 "God/Heaven/the gods/[my dead parent/friend/mentor] will know." (The hero doesn't feel he's really in the dark.)

 "You'll know." (Vaguely anti-heroic: the hero can't live with the thought of his enemy winning in any way.)

This can apply in cases where the credit will quickly be misappropriated, as when working for the glory hound, or when a fake ultimate hero is present.

The usual aesop of this trope revolves around the idea that anyone can do the right thing when all the attention is placed on them and there's nothing to lose, but it takes real strength of character — and heroism — to do the heroic thing when no one is watching and it is inconvenient to do so. This may carry an unfortunate implication that most humans aren't bastards only when big brother is watching.

super trope of silent scapegoat. Antonym of photo op with the dog. Often a prerequisite for a we can rule together offer made to a hero. Compare invisible jerkass, dude, where's my reward?, strike me down with all of your hatred, gift. See also the greatest story never told and zero approval gambit. See shoot the dog for when there are arguments for the morality of both actions. See jerkass façade for when a jerk ass turns out to be a nice person on the inside. May involve the corrupter. This test of character always reveals what is beneath the mask. If a character erroneously believes that nobody will know what he's doing, he can find himself at the wrong end of an engineered public confession (if the situation was set up deliberately) or is this thing still on? (broadcasting a private moment by accident) situation.

If you are looking for the blog by the same title that is part of the slender man mythos, go here.

