The Wild Card is so used to swinging between teams that they have no default 'good' or 'evil' character alignment or even a 'home team'. This trope, on the other hand, truly isn't interested in consistently remaining with either side, and will very often simply want both to leave him alone. He can be the sort of person who will stay out of things entirely, until someone else (usually the hero or other sympathetic character) asks him for help.

Because the Wild Card doesn't care whose toes they stamp on, even if they're supposed to be their team. Come to think of it... the Hero probably only got them on the team (if they even manage to do that) because the Wild Card owes him big time. The Wild Card can really shake up a team - the more suspicious characters will quite rightly not trust him.

Wild Cards often share a few of these traits:

    Personal Goals - "I'm after something else, and I can achieve it without needing to be a good guy. Or a bad guy."

 Self-Preservation:    A Distraction - "I'm not really evil enough to be the real     Sometimes Wild Cards fall in love. Love is the bane of the Wild Card, because no longer does the world revolve around one amazing and easy to understand person - there's somebody else. Oh my god, what is this feeling??! Knowing how erratic the Wild Card can be, it could be somebody from either team - or both. With somebody to care about, the Wild Card may well become more reliable for a team. Or if there's multiple people to care about, they may become less reliable. There are also some Wild Cards who became so because they fell in love with someone.

Wild Cards are very rarely big bads, though; they aren't really dedicated enough to evil - or to anything - to be that evil. However much they may enjoy doing what they do, most Wild Cards have either some form of morality, or high survival instincts, and are likely to turn on their evil employer because they were betrayed, don't want to be blown up with the planet, or even just because they just don't like being that evil. Wild Cards are more likely to be a big bad's poor choice of bastard understudy, or even the Good Team's token evil teammate.

While the average Wild Card sees their 'friends' as a handy bulletproof human shield, they have just enough conscience to feel bad about abandoning them when the fight turns ugly. No Wild Card switches teams because they care about their friends - they switch teams because it means a better life for them.

On rare occasions, a Wild Card may unexpectedly pull a sudden act of heroic sacrifice, though it'll likely be because they guessed that if they didn't sacrifice themselves, they'd probably die anyway - along with everybody else.

Wild Cards are just that unreliable.

Not to be confused with the Wild Cards book series.

See also: true neutral, enigmatic minion, lovable traitor, double reverse quadruple agent, the starscream, opportunistic bastard, heel-face revolving door and chronic backstabbing disorder. Compare/contrast nominal hero.

Particularly wild Wild Cards tend to fall under for the lulz.

