One step beyond a small secluded world, a community has been raised for generations inside of a bubble because of an ancient conspiracy and begins to think there is no outside world, that the city or the village is the only remaining bastion of civilization. This will be disrupted when either an outsider comes into the community or one of the members of the community is required to leave it for some reason. This may cause the members of the shadowy government who know the truth to kill the interlopers, if they haven't gone native and/or died themselves.

Extremely common in the science fiction genre which inspired it, especially in the more cynical age since the 70's when it was popularized by Logan's Run. It nearly always takes place in a dystopian future, or at best a world half full where the outside world really is that bad, or a world where the people are brought up to believe the world is untenable outside, in order to control them. This little plot device is a prime source of paranoia fuel for innocent minds.

Often run by an emperor scientist who likes to produce designer babies and force everyone to wear identical pajamas. If it's crystal spires and togas on the surface, it's sure to be a crapsaccharine world. If the outside world has improved after mankind abandoned it, it's also a green aesop. If the rest of mankind went on without them, it may be a cruel twist ending.

A frequent subtrope is the generation ship, a huge slower-than-light vessel designed for journeys lasting multiple generations— in this case, with inhabitants who've either forgotten or don't know their destination.

Not to be confused with the Bottle City of Kandor, part of the superman mythos: Kandor really is a literal city in a bottle (shrunken by an alien robot), but isn't part of this trope. For a community that knows about the outside, but just wants nothing to do with it, see hidden elf village.

Often a domed hometown with a wall around the world which may or may not be doomed by its residents' collapsing infrastructure and the idiocy and forgetfulness of the sheeple. If the hero is banished for noting that the place is falling apart, compare defector from decadence, ignored expert. If the food supply is made of people, compare town with a dark secret and/or powered by a forsaken child.

See also escape from the crazy place. If you want to get really dark, the heroes may escape the government conspiracy only to find that the outside world really is barren and desolate. Possibly does double duty as an underground city or underwater city.

Compare hidden elf village; especially if the inhabitants are perfect pacifist people, space amish and/or space elves of the proud scholar race sort. Compare crapsaccharine world. See also space brasilia.

Contrast the outside world.

 Jiiha village in  Tokyo Jupiter in   Paradigm City in  The unnamed village from the  Romdo in  The city of  Judoh in  Kandor, in  In the Malibu Comics'   Inverted in Age of X, while the mutants only think they're fighting in a  In the        2005 film  The village of Johnny "Goodboy" Tyler in  In  Turned on its head in the dystopian     The underground city of Topeka in    The plot of  Possibly the case in   High Sacristan, location of the Canticle Engine in Micah E. F. Martin's short story  Again,  The Community in  The H.G. Wells story,  Maraposza Street, also known as "the dreaming street", in  The planet Krikkit from  The third book of the  The inhabitants of Trantor from   Agatean Empire (an    Elizabeth Bear's  H. M. Hoover's  Nancy Farmer's  In Christopher Priest's novel     In  One of the few (perhaps the only) novels based on the  'The Allegory of the Cave' from Plato's  The D'ni, as seen in the  Saraksh from the   The planktonic humans from the short story "Surface Tension" — genetically modified descendants of a crashed colony vessel, whose survivors deemed the planet unlivable by anyone larger than a water flea — believe they live in a complete universe bounded at top and bottom. In fact, they live in a puddle, and the "space expedition" they launch only travels to the next puddle over.

  Cowslip's warren in  The  E.M. Forster's short story "The Machine Stops" features an underground city. There the inhabitants have forgotten what the surface world is like to the point of believing it is a lifeless, barren world. Believing their artificial environment is the only solace from a dead world, the protagonist of the story ends up finding otherwise with disastrous results.

 In  In   The One State in  In an episode of  Jim Henson's 1980s children's show    The 1973 Canadian production  In one of the final episodes of  Hive Cities in  Alpha Complex in  The early SF   In the early  Vault 101 in  The majority of worlds in the  The video game  In the underground world in  This is a perfectly legitimate strategy in  The city of Palm Brinks in  Koholint Island in    This is the background premise to the 8-bit era game  In  A non-scifi example in   A city in a beer bottle appears in  The "Zoojacks" in   In the  A  Online role-playing often uses settings like this, nicknamed a "jam jar". Player characters typically band together to  The underground hatch (and likely their old city of Beautopia) that Susan Strong and the Hyooman tribe live in starts out this way on  Thneedville in  On a less  There is a common Russian stereotype of Moscovites that they think Moscow is this and everything else except, probably, St.Petersburg, is wilderness.

 Most people have the stereotype that all of New York IS Manhattan and/or New York City, despite the fact that NYC being only a very small geographical portion of the state, and such different politics, economy, ecology, attitude, and most other aspects of life that many upstaters wish the two could become separate states.

 A lot of medieval villages would have existed in a state of almost complete isolation, with the only contact from the outside world being the occasional travelling merchant and representatives from the local lord.

  The basis of the book 'Nothing to Envy' is showing the truth of this trope in North Korea, the name coming from the fact that they are conditioned to believe that North Korea is the most advanced and glorious nation on the planet... which leads to quite significant culture shock for those who actually defect.

 The Black Soft-shell Turtle ((Nilssonia nigricans) is extinct in the wild, existing only in a single pond adjoining an Islamic shrine in Chittagong, Bangladesh. There are about 400 turtles in the pond.

