Perhaps it's for some aesthetic reason, or perhaps it's simply because they're so unusual — for whatever reason, cities with canals instead of streets are a very popular setting, especially in fantasy. In stories set in the real world, or some alternate universe sharing its geography, this city is, of course, venice — there are actually other cities and towns with lots of canals, but none are quite as famous or as glamorous, especially since Venice renewed their efforts to make everything really nice and clean in the 1980s. Meanwhile, other worlds often have cities which are suspiciously similar to venice, usually (though not always) within an italy-like country. pretty, old-fashioned european-style architecture and gondolas are optional, though common.

Besides Venice a number of real cities do actually have canals, though most lack Venice's aesthetics due to their most common, ahem, industrial function.

   There's one in  The island Water 7 in  There was a Venice-y city called Aquroya in  Shown in several parts of the  The "Sad Country" in  The Asturian capital in   New Venice from at least the early  The   Two James Bond films:  Theed from   A significant amount of  Venice plays a large role in   The 2003 remake of  The second act of  The rat undercity in  The film  The Dutch horror film  In the Israeli film  The eponymous city of  The city of New Venice in   The first part of Mary Hoffman's  Laketown in  Illian in   Camorr in  Braavos in  The city of Urteau in  Kai Meyer's  One of the cities in the  Kurjain, the capital city of Bethiya, in  La Serenissima (an  Alastair Reynolds' short story "Zima Blue" has a planet with "one hudred and seventy first known duplicate of Venice, and one of only three Venices rendered entirely in white marble."

 Cornelia Funke's  Waterfall City in  Utyrak, on the planet Salavat in the Breen Condederacy, in the  Zarzaparilla Street in  The  Subverted in an episode of  The  Glantri City in the  Marienburg, in   Zarash'ak, the major city in the Shadow Marches in    The first act of   The capital of  Founder's Falls in    Various areas of Haven City in    City on the Water in  There was one actually called "Canal City" in  Soleanna in the 2006  There's a city like this in  Venezia in   There's a level in  Stormwind of   Sigfried's level in  The Plaza maps in  Spinon from  Sunken City in  This is currently the only way to build a city with streets that can be driven on freely in  Naturally one of the cities in the world of Valencia from  The Northern Water Tribe's city in  In  The 1987    In addition, several cities are titled "The Venice of..." because of the identification of this trope with the city. These include Amsterdam in the Netherlands, Bruges in Belgium,  Tenochtitlan, the capital of the Aztec empire, which was located on top of Lake Texcoco in what is now Mexico. However, seeing as it was the seat of power of an ancient Native American culture far removed from anything resembling European culture, it really  Venice, CA was Abbot Kinney's attempt to re-create this in  The ancient Sumerian city of Uruk was founded before 4000 BC, making it the  Phoenix, Arizona has several canals to supply the area's water needs, most of which have scenic walkways on either side. They also have historical significance, as many of them were dug by Native Americans in the area centuries before white settles arrived.

 There was some plan to do this in Raanana in Israel.  The practice of the native peoples around Lake Maracaibo of building their buildings on stilts in the lake led the Spanish to call the region around the lake "little Venice"—in their language, 