A cast full of gay in real life. It's the part of a major city that a good portion of its GLBT community calls home. Rainbow flags hang from the streetlights, and the streets are lined with gay bars, boutiques, trendy cafes, and overpriced housing. You're likely to run into any of the queer as tropes archetypes and their friends, see two men hold hands without fear of retribution, and meet butch lesbians and manly gays who'll beat the ass of anyone who dares try.

The Gayborhood is often an upscale district, feeding the stereotype that all gay people have money out the yinyang. religious fundamentalists often preach about the evils of "that part of town," seeing it as a modern-day sodom and gomorrah, where prostitution and drug abuse run rampant, depraved homosexuals have bare buttsecks out of seedy bathhouses, and where one can't so much as bend over to pick up change without having a leatherman on top of him like white on rice (how they know all of this is a different story).

The more touristy gayborhoods are often known as "gay meccas," as in, someplace every gay person (...who makes enough money to leisurely travel and has enough interest in the scene) should visit at least once. These areas might be separate from a big city, and quite affluent due to the tourism. Stories based here tend to feed stereotypes that gay people (particularly the men) do nothing but lounge around pools and have sex all day.

Stories with a predominantly-gay cast are often based in this setting. twinks in the midst of their coming-out story will visit the bars here on their first taste of the night life. Straight characters who come here for the first time are often in a state of wonder or paranoia towards the locals. The Gayborhood will often visually resemble san francisco's world-famous castro district, even if no other part of the city has a streetcar (and the famous cable cars don't actually run anywhere near the castro). However, real-life gayborhoods are as diverse as the cities they're based in.

