When a country is a city-state, i.e. the city is the country, or the other way around: the country has only one city.

Although this can be justified by the country being small (e.g. Monaco, Vatican City, Singapore), it is NOT justified when a country of this size has an economy the size of the US economy. This is a perfect opportunity to mix this trope with a hearty helping of city of adventure. In anime a city like this is usually a utopia or dystopia.

Note that the area with one city DOES NOT have to be a country, it can be a planet or county or etc...

Compare britain is only london when an entire Real-Life country is reduced into consisting of nothing more than its most popular city.

 In  Almost all (or maybe all) the "countries" in  At the end of  Academy City in   The various  Attilan, home of  Also from Marvel, Madripoor - which, conveniently enough, is next-door to Singapore.

 From Wildstorm (recently transplanted into the DCU) is the small island nation of Gamorra, which is the home base of Kaizen Gamorra.

   In the live action  Quite a few locations in  Trantor from the  Tar Valon from  Grantville in   The crumbling city of  The Queens in  The entire  Melniboné is one of these, by the time the events of    The  As revealed in    The   Although it's not very clear in the game itself at first glance, according to lore    What are commonly called One Province Minors(OPMs) in games designed by   The Good strategy in  The eponymous village of      Spoofed in the   The Italian peninsula also has  Similarly,  In spite of their name, Ancient Greek city-states incorporated numerous surrounding settlements and townships. They were only city-states to the extent that power was concentrated in the hands of the eponymous cities, such as Florence and Venice.

 Also many of the smaller states that made up the  There are numerous first order administrative divisions worldwide (States, to use a US-specific example) that are made up of a single city. They all qualify for this trope to whatever extent the central government permits them to handle their own affairs.

 "Free cities" Gdansk (Danzig), Fiume, Memel (Klaipėda) created after 