

A city whose population is larger than a reasonably sized country. The actual size can depend on the average city size of the setting, but for modern or sci-fi settings, you can assume that the number of citizens goes into the hundreds of millions or even billions.

Depending on the setting you can expect to see a lot of tall buildings, endless suburbs and futuristic ways to get around. If you are lucky the author may have even thought of the troubles with providing food and water for all the inhabitants as well as the problems for the environment so many people naturally generate. If you are unlucky however, the heroes may find themselves alone at times and places where that should be impossible given the population density.

Notice that despite the introduction a given city does not count as a Mega City just because it is bigger than a given country. For example, in real life not less than 41 countries around the world have less than a million inhabitants, 17 even less than 100,000, and cities of that size in other countries are normal and therefore would not be seen as mega cities.

The Mega City will probably be the capital or hub city, and if it's not a merchant city, there'll definitely be a bazaar of the bizarre if you know where to look. If its land area is restricted, expect it to be a skyscraper city.

Occasionally, a Mega City will grow so large that it will become a city planet.

 The City in  The world of  Downlode in   The city of NorthAm in  The pre-war human cities in  The    In   In the   The arcologies in  In   In one of  In F. Paul Wilson's  Nessus from  Appropriately enough, the   Sprawls/metroplexes in  Mort City in  Though there have been many cities mentioned in  Mega-Primus in  One of the playable locations in  Kaineng City from  One of the ultimate goals in any  Mute City in  One of the locations in       The proper term to describe cities- more specifically, Broad-stroke regions- that have reached extreme levels of population and urban development is  According to  In the US (and other places), urban sprawl has started expanding cities to the point where they run together. For instance:

  Outside of the western world:

 The fertile valleys of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates rivers allowed Babylon, 