Twenty-three lines, 468 stations, 5 million daily riders, 1.5 billion yearly riders (at $2.50 a pop) ...and it's in the red. Probably the most famous subway system in the world. Not the first, certainly not the best, but the one everybody seems to know. Administered by the Metropolitan Transit Authority, or MTA. According to that other wiki, the subway trails only the metro systems of Tokyo, Moscow and Seoul in annual ridership and carries more passengers than all other rail mass transit systems in the United States combined.

The trope here is that the subways of new york city are hot, grimy, filthy, encrusted with graffiti, and magnets for street crime. While this was once basically true, subway cars haven't fit this bill since 1990. Some common representations, however, are true:

 The subways do not run on anything that resembles a schedule. Residents don't expect it to, out-of-towners get frustrated, and the MTA still tries to claim that  During rush hour, passengers are crammed together like sardines in a trash compactor. The major routes in Manhattan, such as the 4 and 5, usually run in twos to prevent overcrowding.

  Track deaths are rare, but they do happen. A sizable portion of these are suicides, followed by clueless passengers hopping over the platform to retrieve something they dropped. It's possible to dodge an oncoming train by simply  Although comparatively rare, trains have a tendency to break down at inconvenient times. Actually, worse than breakdowns are scheduled service interruptions for maintenance, which can make traveling on the weekends difficult. At least the MTA is smart enough to not mess with commuter hours.

 The cars are full of panhandlers, hucksters and napping vagrants. Panhandling is illegal in the subways, and patrons have mastered the art of ignoring it, but it's still common for someone to enter a subway car and tell a sob story, ending with "if you can help me out at all..."

 The PA systems are either too quiet, garbled, or both, making it difficult to hear the announcements. Newer cars have electronic maps showing where the train is and what the next stop is, along with a loud and clear automated PA system announcing the stops. (Unless the computer is broken, in which case the route map is off and you have to wait for the conductor to make the announcement. Or just sit/stand where you can see the stop names on the walls.)

Another reality-impaired subway trope is that there are miles upon miles of abandoned subway tunnels beneath the city, just waiting to be inhabited by something evil. Not so much. Though, there are several abandoned stations, as well as the infamously half-complete second avenue line, which has been on the city's to-do list for decades. (Seriously. The impending construction of the Second Avenue Line was cited as a good reason for peggy to buy a particular apartment in Mad Men Season 6. That's set in 1968. They're claiming a 2016 completion date now. Bets?)

Also, their Arts for Transit project practically makes the subway an art museum! Sample the collection the next time you're in town, or sample them here.

Although much of the subway operates underground (roughly 60% of its stations), the system does include large sections of elevated track, particularly in the outer boroughs.

In the old days, the "lines" were built and run by different rail companies, with the Interborough Rapid Transit Company (IRT) running north-south between Manhattan and the Bronx, and the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corp. (BMT) connecting Manhattan to Brooklyn and Queens; these were joined by the city-operated Independent subway system (IND) in the early 30s, and the whole system was unified under city administration in 1940. The stations have remained basically the same, as have the tunnels and tracks used...unfortunately, the rival companies gave each other a wide berth, leading to a needlessly-convoluted route between Brooklyn and Queens under the 'unified' system. Also, IRT tunnels are too narrow to accommodate IND/BMT cars, so there are few convenient east-west "crosstown" lines in Manhattan, and direct rail travel between Brooklyn and Queens is restricted to the rarely-seen "G" train (colloquially, the "Ghost Train"). The former IRT lines are designated with numbers (except for the shuttle between Times Square and Grand Central), while the IND and BMT lines use letter designations.

This has led to the former IRT lines still being colloquially known as "the IRT", while the IND and BMT designations are little-used outside the fandom. Whatever you do, do not refer to lines by color. The most famous cars that shout "New York Subway", the "Redbirds", once the canvas for graffiti artists, have all been decommissioned and used to build an artificial reef in the Atlantic. Modern cars are slightly more generic looking.

Unlike many similar subway systems that use a zone system or calculate fares based on the entry and exit stations, the New York subways are flat-rate: pay once when you enter, and you can go anywhere the cars will take you, be it one stop away or to the opposite end of the city. Originally costing a nickel, it's now $2.25 for entrance, with the option to purchase unlimited cards that last a set time period—7 or 30 days—instead.

Additionally, the MTA runs a complicated system of buses, Staten Island (the red-headed stepchild of New York City) has its own above-ground train line across the island, and there are several separate local rail systems primarily for commuters:

 The  Metro-North, serving  New Jersey Transit, with commuter rail service to North and Central Jersey.

 The The NYC Subway is one of only four mass-transit systems in the United States that run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. The city that never sleeps, indeed.

Inevitably, any TV show or movie set in new york city has at least one subway scene. Listing all of them would just be silly. Usually, though, they are in trains found in systems outside of NY, with the stations also being fictitious (but named after actual stations). If the filming is done strictly in NYC, then you are usually treated to multiple different trains inside and outside, almost never just one.

