An area of strip joints, brothels and other seedy locales. very much based on reality - the term came from railroad workers leaving their red work lamps outside the businesses they were patronizing when going into town for the evening so that they could be located if they needed to be called back to work on short notice (Guess where the lamps were usually found).

Generally portrayed in one of three ways in fiction:

The liberal version: Drunk happy people, women waving down from balconies. The protagonist gets to have a good time, or gets made fun of for being unable to. The most friendly take on the district.

The pitiful version: Drunks collapsed in the gutter, battered strung-out prostitutes. The protagonist is probably here on business. Possible location in a wretched hive. Very common in cop shows and antihero comics. You're most likely to see this side of the district in the grey light of the morning.

The hostile version: The drunks will pick a fight with you, the women will rob you or knife you in an alley. Possible location in a wretched hive. The protagonist is either lost or hopelessly naive, and will be wishing he'd found version 1 before the end of the night. Also common in cop shows, particularly in the first five minutes when they're showing the soon-to-be victim.

Compare band of brothels.



  Seen in  In   In one scene in  The Yoshiwara district of Tokyo is mentioned from time to time in  Downplayed in   In  These appear in a few episodes of  The main characters in  Tomoko visits one in chapter 28 of    Old Town from the  The  The East End in  Rorshach walks through such a neighbourhood in  Bruce Wayne gets into a fight with a pimp in such a location in  A Red Light Area is the location of a porn cinema shooting by a nervous little Catholic boy in  The protagonist is taken to one of these in  Glitzville is portrayed like this in the remake of  Most  The  All of   The Red Light District of New Orleans in the early 1900s is heavily featured in  The city of Ankh-Morpork in the  George Alec Effinger's  The caravanserai area of Vorbarr Sultana in  The  There is one in  The 1975  The Toy Dolls wrote a song called  Porcelain and the Tramps produced a song that's actually called "Redlight District."    The city of Sharn, in  In  The musical  The musical      The  Would you believe there's one of these in  Nar Shaddaa, the     In   In   There's one in  In an episode of 