

The elevating of the status of an existing locale beyond its current stature. cleveland becomes the US Capital, tokyo becomes the world capital, toronto becomes capital of the largest polity in the known galaxy, that sort of thing. The city may of course be very important today, but the transition gives it official political power on a stage above its current influence. At the other end, it can be a sleepy village that suddenly gains much larger stature.

The reasons for this vary. Sometimes, they just aren't given. Other times, other candidates for the position have been destroyed or invaded. Or perhaps they got lucky and economic conditions shifted their way.

    After Tokyo gets destroyed, the Japanese capital is moved to Fukuoka in  In the backstory of  In  Radiator Springs in  In  In  In the  In  Chicago becomes the capital of the Solarian League in  In  Parodied in  In Kenneth Oppel's  In  In the  In  In the  In the  In  After the  In the  In Julian May's   In the 1970s  In  In  An article in the  In  "'But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for out of you will come a ruler who will be the shepherd of my people Israel.'" (Matthew 2:6, citing Micah 5:2)

 Mecca was a fairly minor city in a very out-of-the-way region which suddenly became one of the world's most important places after a different former local started a movement that grew into another of the world's largest religions.

 In  In  In   The moderately important city of Byzantium was refounded as Nova Roma by Constantine I in 330 and became the capital of the East Roman Empire under the name Constantinopolis. It was always geographically important (being on a strait), but it wasn't Capital-of-an-Empire important.

  On July 20, 1847, there was almost nothing between the Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Nevada. On July 21, the first Mormon pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley. Within four years, it had become the capital of Deseret, a proposed state that stretched from the Rockies to the Pacific coast. Congress cut it down into the Utah Territory, but Salt Lake remained the biggest city in the region for decades until surpassed by such cities as Las Vegas and Phoenix.

 Canberra was basically a rural district with a small population until 1908 when, because of politics (that is, being between   Ottawa was originally a backwater town that only existed because of the construction of Rideau Canal. It was incorporated as a city and given its current name two years before it would become the capital of Canada. It was chosen because it straddles the Ontario-Quebec border and its location made it more defensible from an American attack than the other major Canadian cities.

  Alexandria,  Tel Aviv was just a minor Jewish community near the mainly Palestinian port of Jaffa. In only a few decades, as more and more Jews came there after being persecuted elsewhere, it became the second largest city in  Nyenskans was a small Swedish border fort-town. It was located on a bit of territory that Sweden ceded to the rising Russian Empire, and  Earlier in Russian history, Moscow was a quiet town belonging to the Vladimir-Suzdal principality. The Mongols came, the old fiefdoms deteriorated, and a  During the industrial revolution a lot of small and formerly unimportant towns became large cities. Notable examples include  In 1930 Aspen, Colorado, was an obscure former silver mining town deep in the mountains. Most of the silver had been extracted since its early boom years 40 years before, and  Aachen, an unimportant place with hot springs, became the home to Charlemagne's favourite palace in the late 8th century and as a consequence an important city, where the kings of the Holy Roman Empire were crowned until the 16th century. Then Frankfurt became the coronation city.

 Munich, which eclipsed the older centre and Isar crossing of Freising due to the efforts of Duke Henry the Lion (who started by having the bridge in Freising burned down).

 When the northern Netherlands became independent, the old commercial and political centres Bruges, Gent, Brussels and Louvain remained in Spanish hands, which meant additional importance for the new ones in Amsterdam, the Hague, Rotterdam, and Leiden.

 When a group of discontented students left the University of Oxford to set up shop elsewhere, the small town of Cambridge quickly became Oxford's equal as a centre of learning.

 Wittenberg was a middling town in Saxony until a new university was founded there in 1502, and soon after that a certain Martin Luther was appointed one of the professors of theology there. Starting with October 31, 1517, the city then assumed significance for Germany and Europe as the centre of the Lutheran reformation.

 Mekka and Medina due to the rise of Islam.

 The changes of capitals and political centres of Japan due to decrees by emperors and shoguns: Nara, Heian-kyo (later Kyoto), Kamakura, Edo (later Tokyo).

 Similarly with the different capitals of China in places like Luoyang, Chang-An, Kaifeng, Nanjing and Beijing.

 And in Ancient Egypt, with Akhetaton as a notable example of a capital city that did not long survive its founder.

 The small town of Versailles, a small village around which Louis XIII liked to go hunting, became capital of France by the grace of Louis XIV until the French Revolution.

 A mining town tucked into the Wasatch Mountains of Utah was a backward, seedy place until its residents proposed to build a ski resort, which lifted its fortunes after the mines became unprofitable. But Park City became permanently if annually significant when the Utah/US Film Festival, soon renamed the Sundance Film Festival, moved there in a bid to attract interest to the American independent film industry.

  Within the state of  A  Upon Roman conquest, Milan had lost most of its former importance of capital of the Insubrians, with the most important city of north of the Po river being Cremona. Then Cremona was razed in the civil war of 69 AD, and even after its rebuilding Milan remained the most important city of the area, even temporarily rising to  A sort of 