Sydney, the largest city in australia and oceania, is Australia's financial hub. It is the capital of the state of New South Wales, but not the capital of Australia (that role is fulfilled by Canberra). Its most famous landmarks are the Sydney Opera House and the Harbour Bridge; the former, in particular, is required by law to be shown in any fictional depiction of the city.Considered to be among the most beautiful cities in the world thanks to said landmarks (and many more besides), its diverse environment (beaches, parks, forests...) and temperate climate, it makes for a very popular tourist destination - indeed, tourism forms a large part of the city's economy. It has Australia's most famous beach (Bondi Beach) and a very active nightclub scene.

Amongst Sydneysiders is one of the biggest overseas-born populations of any city in the world. Consequently, the city is wildly multicultural both as a matter of official policy, and in day-to-day life. It has the largest Asian, Middle-Eastern, and North and South American communities in Australia, as well as significant Pacific Islander, African, and aboriginal australian communities, and a European-heritage majority. It is home to Oceania's biggest Chinatown. While the overwhelming majority of Sydneysiders speak Australian English, the city is home to languages from all over the world, chiefly Arabic (4.1%), Mandarin (3%), and Cantonese (3%). Sydney is the most ethnically diverse city in Australia.

Perhaps Sydney's most spectacular display of entertainment is the annual New Year's Eve celebrations - one of the earliest celebrated due to time zone differences - where no less than 1 million people, native and tourist alike, will pack themselves into the harbourside, the CBD (Central Business District) and its surrounding areas. Another much-loved attraction is the Royal Easter Show. Sydney also has the successful Vivid and Coffee festivals.

An establishing shot of Sydney (especially the Opera House and/or the Harbour Bridge) is a quick and easy way for a movie to show that its threat is worldwide: see, for instance, Independence Day's flying-saucer-over-the-Harbour shot. It's also popular for nations of the world montages.

Sydney has several major sub-regions:

 The CBD and Eastern Sydney. The Sydney CBD is one of the biggest in the Southern Hemisphere, and contains Asian regional offices for many big multi-national companies as well as a majority of Australian ones. Sydney Harbour and Bondi Beach are considered part of this region. Also the center of the hipster and artistic side of the city, as well as one of the larger Aboriginal populations in Redfern. The Inner West has become part of this region as the city expanded, it contains 'old growth' multicultural areas from the post-war immigration era, with areas commonly associated with Italians, Greeks and other Southern European nations. It's also home to the largest Chinatown in Australia.

 North Shore and the Northern Beaches are considered the upper class area of the city. Contains old homes, rich people, and a private school or three in each suburb. It has a genteel culture and a generous abundance of trees, parks and strips of natural bush. It is split from the Inner City and CBD by Sydney Harbour. The North Shore is home to the City of Ryde, one of the most multicultural areas in Australia (although still not as diverse as certain spots to the west, like Parramatta). The North's growing Asian community also includes "Little Korea" at its edge in Eastwood, while walking through other parts of the region are rather like walking through a city in China.

 The North West is considered "the suburbs" and goes from Epping to Hornsby to Parramatta. Has an odd relationship with the rest of the city as it is trapped between demographics, with people further East associating the North West with the middle and lower classes in the West and South West, while the people in those areas associate the North West with the upper class North Shore and CBD areas. It further isolates itself from the rest of the city because of it's preferences for both Rugby Union  Sutherland (and St George) is where the  The West of Sydney has started to be termed 'Greater Western Sydney', but this area is so large and massive that it makes more sense to discuss more specifically the sub-regions.

melbourne has an ongoing campaign to try and convince people that it is the best city of the two, while Sydney is more concerned with proving it. The two cities have a sporting rivalry in association football (The two cities otherwise tend to mainly support the other two codes of Football dominant within their states.).

    For a period in the late '80s the  When  In                          The second series of  Musical groups originating in Sydney include:

 Although not from Sydney,  The music video for   The page quote comes from famous Australian writer   Sydney receives a  Purna Jackson from   Superwog, while it's humour is applicable to many parts of Australia, was created and is filmed in Sydney.

  The  In the  It held the 2000 Olympics, said by the head of the IOC in the closing ceremony to be the "Best Olympics Ever" 