

These are two very common plots in fiction and naturally occur quite often in real life too. But their execution is extremely different and often leads to a double standard.

Plot A:

Alice is a sweet country mouse who grew up in a sparsely-populated rural area, either on a farm or simply a small town in the middle of nowhere. Either of her own desire or against her will she moves to the big city. She doesn't like it because it's so much bigger, city people aren't as friendly and they look down on her because they consider her a backwoods hick. This kind of plot is usually resolved by Alice getting to move back to the country and appreciating it more if she originally hated it, or acclimating to city life and making new friends who appreciate her good nature.

Plot B:

Bob is a city mouse who lives in a big city with lots of friends and loves to go everywhere. He's likely very independent and materialistic as well. Almost always against his will, he is moved to a much smaller area be it the suburbs or a small town. He will hate it because it's boring, there's nothing to do, and country people are completely different from city people. If it's a farm he'll resent having to help out on the farm. In the process he may learn how hard farming really is, or he may not. But by the end of the story he'll have learned an aesop and come to like his new home, realising it is much better than his old life.

Plot B2: Alice used to be a country mouse but moved to the big city and now has become a city mouse, and is usually embarrassed by her humble origins... then is forced to go back home, same as Plot B, although there will usually be a rekindled forgotten childhood friend romance as well.

The double standard decrees that a country person who doesn't like life in the city is free to move back home while a city person will just have to put up with life in the country. Some works will portray the city as being full of criminals and shady people, often with a lot of drugs thrown in while the country people will be more innocent. Compare welcome to the big city, country mouse, city mouse, and country cousin. It's worth noting that the characters who move do not necessarily have to fit the Country Mouse/City Mouse character types.

Heroic protagonists are often simple farm boys who are thrown into a larger world. One of the supporting characters may be a more urban, streetwise character who is initially depicted as cynical and dubious at best. This is in sharp contrast with the country boy hero's wholesome nature. Characterizations frequently gloss over the fact that people of rural upbringing are often conservative, traditional, and possibly unaccustomed to ethnic diversity.

So or so, the story will often depict how different people (and life) of the city/country are. To the point that they may not understand each other anymore.

blitz evacuees is often a very specific form of plot B (and one of the few kinds where the city-loving characters in the country might end up going back — after the war is over, of course). Compare arcadia.

 Hideki from  In the  In  This is the plot for the  In  In    Diggory Kirke in  This is the premise of    Mostly averted in  The video for The Script's "For The First Time" has a young Irish couple living in New York for work and missing Ireland. At the end of the video they buy tickets to move back home.

  In  In the  The  In the  In the      In   In    James Qwilleran of  In   Played with in  The premise of  The reality series  The  An episode of    The premise of   One of  In  Twilight Sparkle in  Cherry Jam from  The implication that   The  In  The Nazis often espoused a kind of idyllic The Roman Republic often had a romantic view of the rural past, and one of the 