Take the worst or grimmest and darkest side of society, give them a place where all their sins are given free roam to be expressed, and collect it into a system that can just barely sustain itself and you get the Wretched Hive.

it will be a mostly lawless setting, usually (over) populated by criminals. There may be no actual government in this wild west or scavenger world because it is miles or light years away from civilization, and if there is it's probably a dystopia that's corrupt, incompetent, obstructive or perhaps just uncaring enough to not bother to spread its reach to all corners of society. If this hive has any truly good authorities, expect them to be extremely overworked, incapable of controlling the sky-rocketing crime everywhere, or just too idealistic to survive. An alternative is to have it as a gang-like system ruled by a mob boss, big bad or evil overlord who allows evil, but only to a certain standard. It could be truly lawless with no authority other than the big stick you carry with you.Even before it went bankrupt, this was the general misconception of the U.S. City of Detroit, Michigan, in which - as was done in Airplane! and RoboCop - if you referred to a place as "worse than Detroit," you were essentially referring to a place that was horrible, like war zones in Somalia, Afghanistan or Beirut.

The economy is often no better. Public facilities are usually falling apart, and the subways and buses are often full of crooks and junkies. Any schools in this place will almost inevitably be impoverished or sadistic. The roads may be cracked and broken, with a trashcan bonfire ever fifty feet or so. Many buildings have been abandoned, to be occupied by vermin, hobos, or criminals. Decent jobs are few and far between. Housing (if you can get it) is unsafe, filthy, and overcrowded. In short, poverty is the norm, not the exception.

This lawless setting is often wonderful for allowing all varieties of creativity, ideas and/or tropes to flow in, be played and interact in interesting ways, and many plot conveniences that the protagonists need to get away with doing active work rather than just handing problems over to the police or running into fridge logic when they don't get arrested for taking the law into their own hands, while there are several takes on all sorts of unlawful or devious acts. Gangs, cons, gambling, underground fighting, rampant prostitution, a thriving black market (ranging from one guy with some watches under his coat to a literal market), jaywalking and many more. This can be portrayed as anything from guilty fun, inevitable underbelly of humanity to constant danger. The heroes can always find some misdeed around them to solve and the villains will have little problem finding a safe hideout or bad-guy bar to get together and plot schemes. Compare tortuga and gotham to take two recent film examples.



The Wretched Hive has a few sub tropes in increasing size:

        See also gangster land, city noir or industrial ghetto. Also overlaps with soiled city on a hill when the city grows so corrupt that it's beyond redemption and must be destroyed. When real life new york city is portrayed this way, it's the big rotten apple. Has nothing to do with bees.Often paired with crapsack world, but differs in that while the setting is less than ideal, the people in it need not be unhappy or universally sociopathic, nor is the worst result the most likely to happen.

Opposite of the sugar bowl and utopia in general, and shining city more specifically.

    