

A Tourist Trap episode whereby the cast packs up and vacations in Hawaii, land of hula and luaus. Often a thinly veiled excuse for a beach episode, if not outright inexplicable considering how expensive traveling there can be for mainlanders. Expect to see a huge number of native Hawaiians, even though they make up less than a quarter of the population, and a majority of Hawaiians are Asian or part-Asian. Hawaii-themed episodes seemed to reach the peak of their popularity back in the '70s and '80s, when shows like Hawaii Five-O, Fantasy Island, and Magnum, P.I. were on the air and going strong.

A subtrope of the vacation episode.

  Minako was hoping to have one of these in one chapter of        Lampooned in "   Towards the end, the main character of  One  A counterfactual novel by  The           A two-part crossover story started on       On    The first part of "The Doorway", the Season 6 opener on    "Holiday in Waikiki" by   Friendly Fires'  The Blue Scholars released an EP in 2009 titled  As early as 1963 German singer Paul Kuhn poked fun at this trope in "Es gibt kein Bier auf Hawaii" — wherein he sings about         Slinkman in   A popular honeymoon destination.

 Hawai'i's got a  The Polynesian Resort at Walt Disney World is an entire vacation resort based on this stereotype: all of the buildings are modeled on massively oversized longhouses and various "Hawaiian" music is played (often ukelele tunes) throughout the resort. All of the hotel buildings are named after Pacific islands and chains like Hawaii, Tonga, and Tahiti. Guests entering the Great Ceremonial House (the main building) are often given a lei and a fire dancing/torch lighting ceremony is held every day just before evening. This is only the tip of the iceberg.

 Resorts on Hawai'i itself have been doing something similar for quite a while as well, with paid luaus. All of the Luaus will have a dance: if it's not exploring every culture of the Polynesian islands, they'll demonstrate the various forms of Hula. Kalua pig (a pig pressure-cooked underground) is a must.

 