Arabia: land of Ali-Baba, genies, sheiks, Sultans, evil grand viziers (as well as some good ones), dashing thieves and harem girls. When Western Europe was having its dark age, the Islamic world was having its Golden Age, both preserving and enhancing the knowledge of civilization.

Here, Baghdad is still a wondrous, glittering city full of magic and mystery, instead of a grungy, sprawling third world metropolis with soldiers in humvees battling guys in dynamite vests through the cobblestone streets.

Mostly based on the Muslim world which stretched from Spain to India and Central Asia during the Middle Ages. Malaysia and Indonesia are usually not represented because of their tropical climate, as opposed to mystical deserts.

Historically, as noted above, this time period is analogous to the dark age europe of the 7th to the 11th century but this is rarely referenced - and sometimes outright contradicted.

Sometimes this trope is rather based on the 16th-19th centuries' Ottoman Empire. This type of Arabian Nights Days tends to put less emphasis on magic and more on harem girls.

This trope can be a form of cultural blending, as the "Islamic world" was home to various different cultures and languages, such as Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and many others.

A popular trope for this setting is genie in a bottle, traditionally a literal genie. flying carpets are popular too. The look and feel of a bazaar of the bizarre often draws heavily on this period as well. Expect at least one reference to the "sands of time."

In fiction set in modern times, the same region inevitably becomes qurac.

   One story in    In the   The Sultan's court in  Pretty much any film about    Klatch on the  Edward Said devoted his   William Beckford's   Washington Irving's      The  Agrabah, as portrayed in the    Played straight with  The  The  Araby in        The   In    Arabian Night from  The Gerudo from the  The Alin from   Both  The city of Guera in  Al-Mamoon in  The Isle of the Crown in  Al Maajik in     