Not all stories involving those wacky nazis are set in World War II. Sometimes they are set in the aftermath, or even the present. Some Nazis have escaped from defeat and/or trial, and are lurking in a hidden base laying plans to restore the Reich and take over the world (as if a few guys in a hidden lab had better chances than a whole country). Or in more naturalistic stories, they're just trying to evade justice and fondly remembering what fun they had in the camps. Perhaps the hero, or a nazi hunter, is chasing such fugitives; perhaps they have treasures, a lost technology or a macguffin, or perhaps they are simply seen around. Many times, said Nazis are hidden in Argentina or elsewhere in South America.

Having actual WWII fugitives hanging around in the present is becoming a dead horse trope for obvious reasons - any survivors nowadays are going to be pretty ancient without some nazi superscience to spruce them up. However, they could still be used as back story, to give a run-of-the-mill evil scheme that unmistakeable Nazi flavour. Or their children or grandchildren raised in "the faith".

There is some truth in television to this: yes, several Nazis escaped to Argentina and were allowed safe- passage by the government of Juan Domingo Perón, most notoriously Adolf Eichmann (who was captured by Mossad and put on trial in Israel) and Josef Mengele (who never did get caught, but allegedly died in a scuba diving accident off the coast of Brazil). As may be seen in some of the trope write-ups below, there was also a popular belief during the 1970s and 1980s that Martin Bormann, the most senior Nazi not accounted for in 1945, had escaped to South America, although it's now believed by most historians that he died in battle during the fall of Berlin. However, things were not so simple in real life. Several countries sought to receive the german scientists that worked for Hitler and improve their national development, Argentina was one of those countries, but not the only one. The USA, actually, got the most, including famous Wernher von Braun—although for the most part, the scientists were only working for the nazis in the first place because nobody else was hiring. The Argentine neutrality in World War II was not caused by popular support to Nazism (though there certainly was a notorious pro-axis feel at the time, mainly among the armed forces), but by mere localism: most people considered it a distant war between foreign countries, with no argentine business at stake. Other countries in South America gave Nazis sanctuary thanks to what is now a rather uncomfortable relationship between the Catholic Church (which was big in both Central Europe and South America) and fascism (which was also big in both Central Europe and South America). One hypothesis is that it was individual clergymen helping national figures escape a Communist crackdown. Another is that Vatican was seeking Catholic bulwarks against the Communist threat.

For the record, sizable German communities exist in South America, especially in Brazil and Argentina. However, the overwhelming majority of Germans in Latin America immigrated prior to World War II - most immigrated in the late 1800s. Argentina is also home to one of the largest Jewish populations in the world. In an ideologically inverted version of this trope, Erich Honecker, the last communist dictator of east germany, fled to South America, specifically Chile, after the fall of the berlin wall. His widow, Margot Honecker, still lives there and remains a staunch Stalinist to this day.

Sometimes the escaped Nazis are hiding in Antarctica, or on the Moon.

