Ah, Great Britain. Mother of America. Land of the... Big Red Buses.

Are aliens landing in UFOs? They'll land in Hyde Park. Is there a neighborhood full of world-class martial artists with superhuman powers? It's probably right off of Shaftesbury Avenue. Is there a mysterious gigantic cavern hidden just beneath the Earth's surface, wherein the precursors created all life on Earth? There's probably a sealed tunnel in the london underground that breaches right into it. Are you looking for the leader of a secret den of werewolves? He's probably drinking a piña colada down at Trader Vic's. ultimate showdown of ultimate destiny? The Albert Hall has front-row seats. A magical gateway between worlds? Look in the London Underground again — or keep your eye out for an out-of-place police box.

In Hollywood, any characters visiting Britain will stop in one place: Central London. They'll catch a ride on those cool red buses, try to make the guards at the palace laugh, get into a debate about whether it's fries or chips, and at some point meet the Royal Family. The establishing shot will show Westminster Palace, Tower Bridge, The London Eye, or all of the above to a brief standard snippet of "Rule Britannia", just in case you weren't clear on the location. If the makers think they're being subtle, it will feature a red phone box, a red Routemaster Bus driving by (quite rare in real life), and a red-and-blue London Transport sign for one of London's major interchange stations like Liverpool Street or Kings Cross.

Despite the real-life London being 607 sq miles in area, the characters will never leave Central London (around 24 square miles), if they even make it more than half a mile from the river. London is just one city in England, which is itself just one of three countries that make up Great Britain, the largest island in the United Kingdom, which includes Northern Ireland and lots of other islands (see britain versus the uk if you've just gone all cross-eyed). Hollywood England is a tiny place. It's an island, for trope's sake! While there may be a bit more to it than just London, it's not a whole lot more. If scotland, wales and northern ireland cross their fingers and hope really hard, they might just make an appearance in the form of scotireland. The Isle of Man is just plain out of luck.

Hollywood England has only two accents; the "What-Ho, Old Bean" chinless twit one and the "Gorblimey Guvnah" Dick Van Dyke one. If it's a pirate movie set about two hundred years ago there's only the Bristol accent of Robert Newton; "Ahrr, Jim Lad!" See i am very british for examples.

Unless they come into play, the only other place in Britain is basically just a giant field outside London that is home to some sheep, a few cows, some supernatural monsters, a village, a couple of English manors, a castle or two and stonehenge.

This one is fairly understandable when you consider that the vast majority of UK film and television is made in or around London (not to mention the fact that some 12% of the UK's population live in Greater London and this figure increases to 20% if you include the whole of London's metropolitan area. By comparison, less than 7 percent of Americans live in the New York City area). the beeb (and various film councils and what-have-you) are making a serious effort to change this, handing Doctor Who duties to the capable BBC Wales (although most stories set in the UK in its first three series were London-based) and bringing BBC Scotland's locally-popular sitcom Still Game to the rest of the country. ITV even got told off by Ofcom for not producing 50% of their shows outside London.

America's flyover country is a similar phenomenon, where all the money, power, movies and things you've heard of are on the coasts (especially new york, l.a. and washington, dc.) and rest is the people and space the coast-dwellers skip over by air travel.

Compare big applesauce, socalization, canada does not exist, tokyo is the center of the universe, freestate amsterdam. France gets a very similar treatment with gay paree. A strange variation occurs in Irish media, with a huge number of productions set in Dublin. In new zealand, the country's largest city, Auckland, tends to be used this way, if natural scenery isn't involved. Contrast aliens in cardiff and oop north.

For a brief education to personally avert this trope, see other british towns and cities. Don't confuse with the london england syndrome.

