 In American media, Canada is a sweet, quirky and slightly backwards version of america, eh? It's as if you took everyone from Minnesota, gave them an obsession with hockey  (OK, more of an obsession), and made that an entire country, eh? Everybody's white (except the First Nations), eh, and everyone who isn't French has a Scottish  last name, eh?

Canada basically consists of five distinct parts:

     Keep in mind that Canada, Eh? has no West Coast (besides ALL of British Columbia), no Prairies (besides a fairly large hunk of the middle of the country), and certainly no mild winters (except for vancouver). The warm weather stops right aboot at the border (unless it presents a passport), eh!

For more simple-minded types, Canada consists of two parts, eh?:

  Eeeeeh, Canadians eat nothing but kraft dinner even if they didn't have to eat kraft dinner (which is Canadian for "macaroni and cheese"), Tim Hortons, donuts, poutine, and Canadian... er... back bacon, eh? Anglophone Canadians all speak with a stereotyped West/Central Canadian English accent, putting "eh" at the end of questions or affirmations, and prominently raising the "ou" in aboot every word containing it, eh?

the army consists of a guy with a BB gun mounted on a moose, the air force a paper airplane, and the navy a guy in a canoe with a slingshot, eh?

All policemen are Mounties, and they wear their red serge dress tunics and broad-brimmed Montana Peak hats constantly while on regular duty, eh?

Canadian technology is always behind American tech, eh? In fact, if it wasn't for the Americans they'd have no culture at all, eh?

Feel free to whack me over the head with a hockey stick, eh? And doon't feel soarry aboot it, eh! I'll just apologize to you for possibly damaging your hockey stick, because that's the Canadian way, eh?

Oh, but remember: No matter how polite and well-mannered Canada, Eh seems to be, there is that one exception...useful notes about non-fictional Canada now has its own page, eh?

Also see canada does not exist, eh, and minnesota nice for the American equivalent.

