The far north counterpart to injun country, and part of the hollywood atlas. Expect any Inuit villages to be a mishmash of outdated stereotypes. polar bears and penguins are the only wildlife features in the otherwise blank white landscape. The plant life is non-existent, the snow never ever thaws. The only people around are Eskimo who never, ever take off their parkas, and they spend each and every day dog sledding, ice fishing, and seal hunting. They eat nothing but blubber, their ice igloos are their permanent residences (rather than their actual use as temporary shelter), and they know nothing about the modern world. And, of course, they send their old people off to die on ice floes.

Note: In some places, especially Canada, the word "Eskimo" itself is considered politically incorrect. It's a mispronunciation of Inuit ("The people" in Inuktitut), with "Inuk" being the term for an individual of this group, thus "Inuits" is not the plural. On the other hand, "Inuit" itself is specific to a single Eskimo people, and in some places Eskimos who aren't Inuit welcome being called Inuit about as much as Welshmen relish being called English. The native people of Canada (and also the far north of the U.S.A.) are more generally known as the First Nations...except by the Inuit. "First Nations" are the groups formerly called "Indians", and Inuit are very clear they are not part of that grouping.

Also, as a side note, this stereotype has even less basis in reality than most—they have a cultural tendency towards hot bloodedness (and, in common with other First Nations/Native peoples, an unfortunate propensity to alcoholism), have had a very bloody history with intertribal warfare, and will quite cheerfully use modern technology to make their lives a bit easier. Snowmachines are very popular, and rifle hunting is a favorite pastime. And Elders (at least in Canada), especially those who actually grew up in a more traditional lifestyle, generally tend to think that anyone pining for the good old days before modern conveniences, technology and medicine is utterly insane.

