To hollywood (and depressingly often to British media as well), britain is only london. How they portray the place is generally split into two approaches:

A place full of rich people, fancy society balls, posh accents and general happiness. Expect the RP accent.

    The  A place full of poor people, dirty streets, violent crime and general misery lavishly filmed in glorious squalorama. Expect Cockney and/or the rougher-sounding East London accent.

 Anything involving  The Lily Allen song "LDN". (A   People associate excrement with   In videogames, London is definitely shown to be a mix of both, with perhaps more emphasis on the paved with gold side. In the In real life, London is very much a combination of the two and there's very much a sliding scale. London does have a rather notoriously high cost of living, so it tend to be like a lot of cities, full of both people who can comfortably afford it, and people who can't but have to live where the jobs are. On one end, you've got ludicrously posh places in the west central part of the city. In places like Holland Park, Belgravia, and Mayfair, the richest people in the world conspicuously consume like it's going out of style. At the other end, you'll find some of the most deprived places in the nation, known as "sink estates", in areas like Peckham, Hackney, and Harlesden. The really poor places — as seen in Oliver Twist — started disappearing with slum clearance in the 1920s and 30s, with the Luftwaffe obliterating the rest during world war ii. The important thing to note however is that most neighbourhoods are very mixed income. Council estates can be found in the wealthiest boroughs and million pound properties in the poorest.

Various areas of London (we're using the Greater London Authority area, although people in a number of those areas don't always consider themselves Londoners) have their own stereotypes:

 The Docklands: Home of the former Port of London. Until that closed down, it had the same tropes as the East End, retaining many of them until the 1980s. With massive urban redevelopment, most notably of the Canary Wharf area, it is now perceived as an area of business and yuppie-owned flats.

 The East End: The precise boundaries of this area vary depending on whom you ask. We'll be using the largest definition, the entirety of the "E" postcode area. Was  East of the East End: The areas of Greater London that were formerly part of Essex before 1965 and still identify with the latter. There's Barking ("One stop after East Ham" and its variants are a British way of saying "crazy", referencing Barking station, on the  Soho: Home of Chinatown and London's (now quite small) "red-light district". Expect to see this more in the 1970s. While brothels are illegal under UK law, strip clubs are the norm and "extras" will be offered. Now an area full of nightclubs and bars, and not really at all seedy unless you know exactly who to talk to, much to the disappointment of tourists. Also has a arty bohemian reputation for jazz bars and the like, as well as being Londons Gay Quarter with many LGBT friendly establishments.

 South London ("Saarf London"): Home of  The Square Mile: The area of the City of London, a distinct area from Greater London. Centre of Britain plc.

 The West End. Home of a lot of London's famous shopping streets and its theatres. The West End is of course the UK's equivalent of Broadway and a number of musicals do both of them.

  North London: Islington, Shoreditch, Hoxton and so on. Trendy, "artistic", lefty sorts of areas often shown as being full of pretentious tossers. Islington is relatively wealthy and "nicer" than the others — here you'll find the "chattering classes". Hotblack Desiato from  Camden: Also an arty, trendy area famous for its markets. Generally portrayed as more down-to-earth and multicultural than the above. Lots of drug subculture - usually soft drugs rather than The Famous Streets of LondonLondon has many famous streets. Some are best known from the UK version of monopoly:

 Abbey Road —  Harley Street — Home of many private medical facilities, but not on the board.

 Old Kent Road — the first spot past GO on the board, this road starts in Walworth and heads South East.

 Baker Street — Home of  Strand — in Westminster, commonly "The Strand", although officially the article is omitted. A cultural hub of 19th century London, which retains several West End attractions today. Its crossing into the City of London is marked by Temple Bar, where it turns into...

 Fleet Street — a metonym for the  Oxford Street — the main shopping district, home to the flagship stores of many retail chains.

 Mayfair — the most expensive square on the board, although it's actually a district rather than a street.

 Bond Street — Technically two streets and a green square on there.

E Numbers - - The London Postal District systemWhen you're walking around inner London, you might see codes like E1 and WC3 on the street signs. These are the UK's equivalent to the first five digits of US zip codes, but are far more widely known in the UK, although they only appear on street signs in certain places.

Certain post codes are more desirable than others. E1, the heart of the East End, has now become pretty attractive.

British opposition politicians refer to "a postcode lottery" in terms of public services provision — with different areas having different levels. This is due to day-to-day running of schools and hospitals being devolved to special local authorities, such as an LEA (Local Education Authority).

These are sometimes rendered by their compass points, as in the name of the boy band East 17 (Walthamstow), later E-17. Note that except in the case of EC (1-4) and WC (1-2), the numbers following the compass points are arranged not in geographical order but in alphabetical order of the main borough covered by each number - except 1, which is always the nearest to central London.

There is no NE or S postal code in London - NE is the city of Newcastle-upon-Tyne in northeast England, S is the city of Sheffield. The codes are:

 E1-18. The East End. The "East of the East End" area has the RM and IG codes.

 EC1-4. The city of London.

 W1-14. Actually two separate postal areas due to the sheer number of addresses in W1 (The West End), it covers inner West London.

 WC1-2. Camden and Westminster.

 SW1-20. SW1 is Whitehall. SW19 is  SE1-28. South East London. SE10 is  N1-22. North London, partly going outside the GLA area.

 NW1-11.

E98 is a code allocated for news international.

There are now sub-divisions for postal purposes, e.g. EC4Y for the Temple area in the city of London.

The London Postal District is far smaller than Greater London, so areas outside it use their traditional county names, such as "Barking, Essex" and the "Brentford, Middlesex" (abolished in 1965 as an administrative county), which is the name of a cricket club.

The entry pointsLondon has six main airports (plus some smaller ones), all of which have featured in fiction at some point. Not all of these are inside the Greater London area.

 Heathrow (LHR). Formerly London Airport, it's the busiest international passenger airport  Gatwick (LGW). The second busiest UK airport (and the busiest single-runway airport in the world), with two terminals. It is connected to London via the Gatwick Express train (and marginally slower Southern Trains services) to Victoria Station. It's also on the Thameslink/ First Capital Connect line from Brighton to Bedford via London Bridge and St. Pancras.

 Stansted (STN). North east of London. Connected to London via Liverpool Street Station.

 Luton (LTN). Best known for the airline easyJet, featured in the  City Airport (LCY). In the London Docklands.

 Biggin Hill (BQH). A private airport, formerly a famous RAF base. Still does an annual air show.

Airlines will often sell tickets to airports they claim to be "London" but are nothing of the sort. A certain Irish airline was fined a few years back for selling tickets from Sydney, Australia to London Prestwick, Prestwick being an airport on the outskirts of Glasgow, a good 12 hours train journey away. Arguably, Stansted and Luton were under this category for years, until the likes of easyJet started moaning about it.

London is also a major port. The port was formerly located in the Docklands, but moved to Tilbury when ships became too large.

London also has the Eurostar train service to mainland Europe. This used to run out of Waterloo (which features in the film of The Bourne Ultimatum), but has now moved to St. Pancras, which frankly needed some love- the only thing that went from there was the Midland Mainline service.

To get around London by car (going through it most people will tell you is pointless, given the traffic congestion and the congestion charge during weekdays) you'll need to navigate the M25 (AKA the world's largest car park, although not so much since they widened it. Although the way things are going, it'll end up like that again), the motorway which circles most of London (the only gap being the Dartford Crossing which is part of the M25 in all but name). A word to any inexperienced motorists who plan on attempting to use the M25 - don't, it will suck out your soul.

 According to Other Bits Of London in fiction The red buses. Most notably, the Routemasters, with their open back entrance. The Routemasters were removed by the last Mayor, Ken Livingston, but are in the process of being replaced by a twenty-first century version by current mayor Boris Johnson.

  The black taxis, also massively overused in establishing shots. The Austin FX4s and later Fairways familiar to foreign film and TV watchers are being gradually replaced by more modern-looking TX4 vehicles, and  " See also:

 Fun fact: Big Ben has a Twitter account. It's kind of monotonous, though.