Lots of Americans have a fondness for ireland. This is understandable, considering there are more americans of irish descent than there are people living in ireland (by a margin of about 11 to 1). This has a certain amount of always an actor about it, in that Americans will sometimes claim Irish or Scots descent on the basis of third or fourth generation ancestors and near-homeopathic delusions of actual genetic connection. Thus, it is only natural that some series would at some point have an episode or two on the Emerald Isle.

unfortunately, most people in hollywood can't tell the difference between ireland and scotland. Some, however, like to show that they did do the research by showing Ireland as a separate country with its own customs. However, rather than have a look at what the place is actually like, they turn to british series made before political correctness came in. Hence, you end up with Oireland.

This trope goes waaaaaaaay back to at least the days of stage irishmen in eighteenth-century British theatre. Brought back to life by john ford in the iconic john wayne film The Quiet Man — which is not a bad movie, and was well-meant by the staunchly Irish-American Ford. Also by his later and lesser-known triptych film The Rising Of The Moon, made with the Abbey Theater players.

While elements of this character may also be seen in southie, never try to argue over whether Irish-Americans (or Irish-Canadians, for that matter) should be considered Irish. 'twill nae end well. More sheep than the  Overwhelmingly Catholic: you'd be hard pressed to find a reference to Ireland's sizable Protestant population in Oireland unless the story is explicitly  The substitution of me for my, such as "This is me house." There is a bit of  Everybody's name starts with "Mac", "Mc", or "O'". In reality, the most common surname in Ireland is "Murphy", which appears pretty frequently in fiction. The second most common is "Kelly", which doesn't. (And "Mac" or "Mc" is more common in Scotland than in Ireland.)

 Wrinkly auld farmers greet travellers with a hearty, "Top o' the moornin' to ye." While some stereotypes have some merit, this has absolutely none. No Irish person ever says "top o' the mornin'". EVER. Unless they're ridiculing those who think they do.

 Nobody says "yes." Instead, expect to hear, "aye" or something like, "Ah, to be shoor, to be shoor and begorrah." In truth, a relic of the native Gaeilge language (which does not have the words for "yes" and "no") has natives often express agreement by restating, such as: "Did you see the film?" "I did." "Is it good?" "It is."

 Friendly or flighty   There are startlingly frequent jokes about beaten wives,   Potatoes. Lots of potatoes. After their introduction from the Americas, the calorie-dense potatoes became the main diet of the Irish due to British policy reducing the size of family plots. Potatoes became permanently ingrained in Irish stereotypes when the  Corned beef with cabbage: This is a cultural trait of Irish-Americans, learned from their Ashkenazi Jewish neighbors. In Ireland, people eat  Everyone lives on a  Lots of Irish step dancing, which is often called  Music will tend to be traditional Irish music like that heard at a ceilí, and is almost always a jig or reel. If not that, it will probably be an Celtic punk band such as  Green clothing all around: green hats and vests, and sometimes green trousers as well. Ireland is known as the Emerald Isle for its lush green pastures, so green is typically seen as Ireland's official color. Wearing green clothing, however, is strictly a St. Patrick's Day tradition among Irish-Americans. In Ireland, the Protestant ruling class (whose sectarian color was famously orange) once discriminated against Catholics by passing laws prohibiting "the wearin' o' the green."

 Oirish people are all poor, or at the very least come from a working-class background. This view was obviously caused by the mass migration of lower class Irish workers into American in the 19th century. From 1995 until roughly 2007, Ireland's economy became the booming  Post- Any Irish character in an action movie — good guy or bad guy — will be a former (or current) member of the IRA. There's about a 90% chance that they'll be an explosives expert.

  Sentimentality. Lots and lots of sentimentality. In particular, when combined with a selection of the above the Oirish people are generally presented as a canny and friendly folk (the word 'quaint' tends to pop up a lot) with a cheerful song in their hearts and a mischievous twinkle in their eyes, expressing their simple-yet-wise philosophy that's as old as the hills and informed with the magic and mystery of the ages and the  The only one feature of Oireland that does resemble real Ireland is the huge reputation for drinking, particularly with Guinness. In truth, Ireland doesn't even have the highest average alcohol consumption in Europe; that honor goes to the Czech Republic (to be fair, Slavic stereotypes also echo this to some extent). And people in Ireland consume drinks other than Guinness. Indeed, beer and ale are actually transplants from England; the "traditional" Irish spirit is whiskey (and that's spelled with an "e," thank you, not "whisky" like Scottish stuff).See also fake irish for when an 'Irish' character is being played by an American or British actor and may or may not be Oirish.

Set in, or having episodes in, OirelandOirish Characters