

In Germany, everyone is fat, constantly drunk on beer, dressed in lederhosen, eats nothing but sausages and pretzels, and gets totally ticked off whenever somebody mentions the war. If you're lucky, you might get a mention of more recent events - such as the berlin wall and david hasselhoff.

It's pretty likely that the beer is being served by one of those wenches with gravity-defying blonde braids and big breasts pushed up by the 'uplift bodice' on her dirndl. If so, expect If you're in a modern nightclub, expect to it to be a strange one involving a lot of leather. and possibly nihilism.This has partly to do with the fact that many American and British units were assigned the southern part of Germany as their occupation zone at the end of WW II and as such most of their military personnel took their experiences of bucolic Bavaria as the archetype of all things German back home. Another contributing factor is that a significant portion of the German immigrants to America came from the rural regions of Southern and Eastern Germany- especially Bavaria. To this day one will find German Americans proudly operating traditional Biergartens and breaking out the Leiderhosen, steins, sausage, polka, and sauerkraut at any opportunity, much to the chagrin of any modern Germans trying to shed exactly this folksy image. While the intention is an honest celebration of their heritage, it can reach a point of misaimed fandom and self-parody at times, similar to the enthusiasm of those of oirish descent.

Of course, many foreign authors discover there is more than one region of Germany. sadly these "discoveries" tend to include regions like the black forest where they grow cuckoo clocks, fairy tales, and gingerbread houses. In prussia, of course, the men all have crew cuts, monocles, duelling scars and "vays off makink you talk", and their distaff counterpart the baroness is happy to assist. Oddly, while the stigmatic association with swastikas and blitzkrieg is fading as time progresses, this archetype seems to be morphing into an image of tight-laced basketcases, goths, and dominatrixes who frequent badly lit discotheques blaring electronic music, and their ways of making you talk might just be marzipan, chocolate, and the baroness. But be prepared to listen to a detailed history of imperial germany before they went and ruined it for everyone.

German fiction has tropes of its own regarding "Ossis und Wessis" (former east and west Germans respectively): Wessis are supposedly materialistic, arrogant assholes, while Ossis are usually poor, bad-tempered, lazy whiners. And berlin is the freestate amsterdam of Germany (which, truth be told, isn't too far off the mark—although it also has shades of nyc and Washington, too).

by the way, germans do have a sense of humor. Although a stereotype, it's still better than the other thing germany is known for. But not much. Invoking this stereotype will give you a very hard time making friends with any Germans.

oh, and by the way, oktoberfest is celebrated in both late september and through early october. One episode of  Despite being Japanese,  Alfi (cousin of  A scene in  The Griswalds from  The entire German cast from  We never visit Germany itself in the musical  Something of a subversion near the end of  The song "I Love Louisa" from   At one point in  In  This trope was satirized to death (and then some) by the  On   Well...  Cincinnati  German songs bang on about this to the extent that the Deutschlandlied, from which one part was taken to become the  At a cruder level, there are interminable German student songs, invariably about imbibing huge quantities of beer ( Many breweries in the United States and other non-German countries sell seasonal craft beers to commemorate Oktoberfest. Such beers are usually premium German-style lagers that are only available during the months of September and October.

 The japanese restaurant "Die Wurst" is bavarian themed with waitresses wearing "Dirndl" and "Lederhosen".

 Leavenworth Washington, which survived the decline of the timber industry by turning itself into a little Bavaria in the Cascades, is known for it's Octoberfest.

 The musical  The protagonist of  The Berlin level of  The Medic in   German  The goats and   The episode of  Stewie and Brian stopped by this version of Germany while on their "Road to Europe" tour in  The main villain in the  Uter from  The character Dieter Lederhosen from  In the  Played with in  In 