Italy, mostly known for its food and the fat mustachioed guys who prepare it. There are only two cities in Italy, Rome and Venice. Neither city seems to contain a single building constructed after the 17th century. Rome is heavily populated by gourmet chefs, effete fashionistas and handsome, Vespa-riding homewreckers all too eager to give young female tourists a romantic ride past the Trevi Fountain — oh, and most famous landmarks are within five minutes of each other, too. The Leaning Tower of Pisa is usually found here as well, as opposed to, you know, in Pisa.

Venice, meanwhile, is chock full of handsome, gondola-riding homewreckers all too eager to give young female tourists a romantic ride under the Bridge of Sighs. Either way, men: if your wife or girlfriend steals away on one of these intimate little tours, you're probably flying back home by yourself. Sorry you had to hear it from us.

Apparently, Tuscany has swallowed up the rest of the country, as all the surrounding countryside consists of tomato farms and vineyards. If anybody's got any kind of sound system, expect to hear it blasting either "Funiculì, Funiculà", "O Sole Mio", "Santa Lucia" (all Neapolitan songs) or some famous giuseppe verdi aria.Female Italians are usually dark haired beauties, feisty and wildly slutty, yet for some reason are also very faithful and jealous of their man. In other words, spicy latinas through and through.

Expect plenty of gratuitous italian.

There's also a dark side to this idyllic country: the time-warped post-war black-and-white Italy that somehow survived till today, directly from neo-realistic movies. It's a dangerous and inhospitable country mostly populated of black clad old women that speak quietly and make emphatic gestures, act as superstitious yet religious fanatics, and still don't own a TV set or a vehicle. The only intelligible words these creatures seem to be able to communicate is some distorted provincial dialect like "goomba", and they still claim to vote for Mussolini (Well, you still can...). The remaining population of dark Italy is composed of dark skinned and dark haired (almost Indian looking) scoundrels, good-for-nothing or whores.

In a twist of supreme irony, the whole American continent was discovered by an Italian sailing under the flag of Spain. Rather than coming from Rome or Venice, said Italian, Cristoforo Colombo, came from Genoa, the maritime merchant republic in northwest Italy which destroyed the Pisans (yes, them of the leaning tower) and scared the Venetians shitless in several naval battles. (Back in the day when they went around in heavily armed galleys rather than gondolas, defeating Venetians was an achievement to be proud of, like sinking the U.S. Navy.) Contrary to the more popular Italian tropes, Genoese are famed to be a surly bunch of seldom-smiling, understated, humorless fellows, disdaining songs and dances and preferring pesto to tomato on their pasta; they also have an unjustified reputation of being stingy, similar to stereotypes of scots and jews.

Following a rather lacklustre performance in ww2, the Italian armed forces are popularly regarded as a bunch of chianti drinking surrender monkeys, even if their previous and later performances were never as bad as that one.

The trope is named after an American chain of casual dining restaurants.

See here for info on the real country.

