A portmanteau term for the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge (two distinct institutions). They are the UK's equivalent to the ivy league and thus they are popular in UK fiction. They have also inspired fictional universities such as the unseen university for wizards in the Discworld novels.

The University of Oxford, like all of the first European Universities, was never officially founded, rather it grew up organically as scholars settled in the city and began establishing their own informal institutional ties. Teaching activity is recorded in the city from at least the late 11th century. In 1209-10 the university was closed down temporarily and many scholars fled Oxford after two students were hanged for killing a woman. Many of them settled in Cambridge and established their own University in the following decades. The University of Cambridge received its official royal charter in 1231.

Cambridge is known for the Cambridge University Footlights Dramatic Club (more commonly just "The Footlights" or "The Cambridge Footlights"), which puts on a yearly comedy revue and has featured some of Britain's best-loved comic writers and actors, including Peter Cook, half of monty python, douglas adams, emma thompson (actress, Remains of the Day), Clive Anderson (presenter, Whose Line Is It Anyway?), and John Oliver (The Daily Show).

The Footlights have also given birth to some of Britain's best comedic pairings/groups, including stephen fry and hugh laurie (A Bit of Fry and Laurie, but better known these days as the guy from QI and the guy from House, respectively—and, incidentally, introduced to each other by Emma Thompson), half of the monty python troupe, The Goodies, and mitchell and webb (Peep Show).

Both universities are actually composed of semi-independent colleges, which accept applicants individually.

Undergraduate teaching methods at both universities are distinct from many others in the UK in using the "tutorial system". Rather than self-contained classes with their own lectures, assignments, exams etc., most subjects are taught via the university putting on lectures (and running the final-year exams on which students' degree class is almost wholly dependent), while the colleges independently assign their own coursework to the students. Most of this college-level teaching is done in tutorials between a faculty member and one or two students at a time, scenes of which will often crop up in Oxbridge-set fiction.

Oxford and Cambridge also both do the curious awarding of, in addition to the standard variety, "fake" MAs. For historical reasons (in short, the original undergraduate degree was an MA, BAs being a later invention), those who graduate with a BA (for , almost all first degrees, even in the sciences) can receive an MA a set number of years later, normally 7 years after matriculation (shortly after you start), merely by turning up for the ceremony (or paying a few quid to graduate in absentia). UK employers are generally aware that these are pretty meaningless.

Oxford is also one of the last university to require the wearing of academic dress (known as subfusc—Suit, cap, gown and bowtie) on a regular basis. Now it is only mandatory for formal ceremonies, some of the lectures, and exams, but it is still more commonly seen on regular days. Cambridge is much more relaxed on the dressing front.

Of minor note is that Oxford (though not Cambridge) is one of the few places that awards a "DPhil" rather than a "PhD" as the standard academic doctorate in most subjects, thus an Oxford DPhil just indicates that the person has a doctorate, not that their research was in philosophy. ("DPhil" technically stands for "Doctor of Philosophy" of course, but then so does "PhD").

Oxford has educated twenty-six British Prime Ministers (including the incumbent, david cameron). Its most visible institution is probably the Oxford Union, an independent debating society whose controversial guest speakers occasionally make the mainstream press. Since 1902, Oxford has also offered the Rhodes Scholarship to a very select group of foreign students each year. Several Rhodes Scholars have gone on to be heads of state and/or government of their home countries, the most famous being bill clinton (who never actually graduated from Oxford, having transferred to Yale to finish his law degree). Two australian prime ministers were also Rhodes Scholars, Bob Hawke and the incumbent Tony Abbott.

There is a rather fierce rivalry between the two universities, members of each referring to the other as 'The Other Place'. This rivalry is most apparent in Varsity matches, which are any type of competition between the two, most often sporting (e.g. the boat race) but also covering various events such as the annual Tolkien quiz. The 'Town' (non-university) vs 'Gown' (university) divide is also a thing in Oxford and Cambridge, as both Universities essentially run their host cities, something accepted with fluctuating levels of equanimity by the other inhabitants.

Naturally both of them have a pretentious latin motto, though there was nothing pretentious about them when they were chosen—back then, all the students would have been expected to speak Latin as much of the teaching was done in that language. Oxford has Dominus Illuminatio Mea ("the lord is my light") and Cambridge has Hinc lucem et pocula sacra (literally, "From here, light and sacred draughts"—draughts being a metaphor for knowledge, but it would also work quite well as a reference to the pubs...)

See also strawman u. Compare ivy league for everyone in US works and tokyo university in Japanese ones.

Oxbridge sub-tropes:

 Punting on the River Cam.

 The Oxford Don With The Caustic Wit.

 The Cultured English Double Agent From Cambridge. Truth In Television- note the Cambridge Five.

 The Professor Who Recruits People For The Secret Service. Also Truth In Televison. During the  The  The Boat Race - in which Oxford and Cambridge rowers race down the River Thames for a bit. Shown on TV. Chucking the winning cox in the river seems to be obligatory.

Oxford in the media:  In    The fictional Bailie College at Oxford made occasional appearances on  Cal Lightman of  In the first episode of Series 4 of   In  As the page quote shows,  Amateur detective Gervaise Fen, in the series by Edmund Crispin, is an Oxford don.

     A character in "   The  Christminster University in     Cambridge in the media:    The  The 'Imogen Quy' detective novels by Jill Paton Walsh are set in a fictional Cambridge college.

 Susannah Gregory's 'Matthew Bartholomew' novels are set in and around one of the original Cambridge colleges.

  At the beginning of     Mackenzie McHale from  In  In one episode of   Olly Reader of  As mentioned above, the inspiration for Unseen University in the  Jeremy Clarkson on  The BBC Light Entetainment Department, responsible for talent-scouting and nurturing new comedy talent, has often been lampooned by snarky comics who went to less prestigious colleges (there are over forty other universities in the UK, and the same number of upgraded polytechnics/tech colleges) as  The titular character of the  Several characters in the 