The primary difference between the Arctic and the Antarctic is that one has polar bears and one has penguins — if you're lucky enough not to see them in the same place or one of them in the wrong place. Oh, and they're on opposite ends of the Earth, but who can remember which one is where? Certainly not Hollywood, which treats them as interchangeable lumps of ice to send doomed expeditions up. The (Ant)Arctic circle is full of snow, chasms, avalanches and those great big ice bridges that collapse just as the last person makes their way across. cannibalism may be unavoidable. If one is lucky (or unlucky) you might find that weird hidden tropical valley filled with... interesting denizens.In christmas specials, children's cartoons and comics, there will literally be a South or North Pole that looks just like the striped poles outside barbers' shops. christmas elves, reindeer and santa claus will no doubt be somewhere nearby, at least in the case of the North Pole. In these cases, the cannibalism rule can be waived, although, in a comedy, the word 'venison' is a guarantee.

For the record, the North Pole is a frozen sea and the South Pole is an actual frozen continent, but that doesn't come up much either. If it did, we might start wondering why Santa built his house not on a rock, but on a floating mass of ice.Incidentally, the word 'Arctic' actually comes from the Greek word for bear, Arktos. This is in origin nothing to do with polar bears, but refers to the constellations Ursa Major and Ursa Minor (the great and the small bear, respectively), which are always in the north as seen from Greece. However, it makes for a convenient mnemonic — the Arctic is the land of the bears, the Antarctic is the land opposite the bears.

Of course, it's probably just easier to remember NORTH IS BEARS, SOUTH IS PENGUINS.

May be explained by the fact that everything's better with penguins. Then again, bears are bad news, so the penguins might just balance things out. On the other hand, the bears may also be beary funny, in which case both bears and penguins make for a real cool rule of funny.

