The banana republic or ruritania of the Middle East, named for the fictional country that causes so much trouble in the dcu.

There are two or perhaps three overlapping versions: the arabian nights version has a gobsmackingly rich sultan, smoky harem tents full of doe-eyed concubines to be put at the disposal of the Honoured Effendi, a scheming grand vizier behind his back, and of course, oil. The genies and flying carpets are optional.

Another version has a tin-pot dictator whose pretentious title is inversely proportional to the size of his domain. His army and air force will probably be equipped with rusting Soviet surplus. Oil is optional, America-hating terrorists are a must. It is usually located in the Middle East or Northern Africa, with Iraq, Libya and Syria as prototypes. It, however, may also be former USSR territory in Central Asia (Turkmenistan appears to be the prototype here, with its batshit insane dictator Saparmurat "Turkmenbashi" Niyazov).

The third version is a Jihadistan ruled by a junta of religious fanatics, imams, ayatollahs and mullahs. You are likely to see only men in the streets, with women either being locked in the homes or wearing black burqas and escorted by men. Also either aided or opposed by a lot of big-bearded nutters wielding AK47s, shouting "jihad!" and are very likely to blow themselves up for 72 virgins. An overall squalor and apathy prevails, interrupted by occasional flag burnings, beheadings and stonings. oil optional. Prototypes are Taliban-era Afghanistan, the former Soviet republic of Tajikistan during its civil war, and the Tribal Zone in Pakistan; Iran appears to be a mix of types 2 and 3.

Whichever version you're in, expect Mosques, veils, scampering children demanding Baksheesh, heat, sand, and camels. And oil. if you don't like hummus, you'd better bring your own food.

Note that such a country is only Qurac if it's on Earth. Middle Eastern countries on other worlds are fantasy counterpart cultures.

On a side note, Qatar is the only (real) country in the world that has a name starting with "Q". On another note, the phonetic sounding of "Qurac" is identical to the word for "Dry" or "Arid" in Turkish (and possibly other regional languages).

See also bulungi, ruritania and banana republic.

