Sound and music are significant in storytelling to help the viewer grasp the personalities, moods or locales in which the story takes place.

leitmotifs are usually used to identify a character, and mood motifs are to help set the tone of the sequence.

Here we're exploring Regional Riffs — and the musical instruments that seem inexorably linked as cues to locations. This is sort of the audio equivalent of the foreign-looking font — a certain musical style is used because it resembles the actual music native to the setting, or because Hollywood has decided it just has the right "feel." Sometimes the composers try to be culturally accurate but don't do their research, employing scotirish bagpipes or spexican bands. Some regional riffs now carry unfortunate implications due to associations with stereotyped portrayals of the area in question.

Compare standard snippet, which is a specific song associated with a certain place, activity or situation. A Regional Riff might simply be suspiciously similar to a standard snippet.

 The Didgeridoo and the Bull Roarer of  The sitar and tablas of India

 The dung (the 5m long monastic trumpets) of Tibet

 The Koto, Woodblock, and Shakuhachi of Japan

 The  The gong, zither, erhu fiddle, and Pekin Opera of China.

 The  The  The Azaan (call to prayer) of the Muslim World gets used in a  There is also " If the scene takes place in a bazaar (or, of all places,  Harmonious string violins are incredibly overused to represent any desert in the Middle East. This is possibly because of the  The shofar of the Holy Land

 The Lute of the Mediterranean

 The European Accordion

 The people of France have apparently gone to great effort to ensure a generic chorus of "La Marseillaise" is playing every time a plane carrying a protagonist is landing in Paris.

 The German Oompah Band ( The  The warbling gondolier of Venice

 The hammered dulcimer or, more likely, the cimbalom of Central and Eastern Europe.

 The  The  The eerie violin of  The clarinet klezmer of European Jewry.

 Scandinavia will usually sort it out with small accordions (Sweden), or a jew`s harp and a Hardanger Fiddle (Norway). Unless somebody starts off a   The Throat-Singing of Siberia.

 Caucasian   Mexican Guitar

 Mexican Conga drums

 More stereotypically: Trumpet with a guitar in the background, at  The Rainstick of the South American Rainforest

 The Steel Drums of the Caribbean

 Quena, siku, charango and bombo from Los Andes.

 The Stately Horns of England

 The  The  The Drums of the Picts

 The young-English-male chorus of muscular Christianity, singing a hymn over establishing shots of an old-fashioned  The tinkling pianoforte of the  The brass band of  And the Male Voice Choir, keeping a welcome in the hillsides of  Ironically enough the actual national anthem (officially titled "National Anthem", more commonly know as "God Save the [King/Queen]" depending on the current monarch) is rarely used, since it shares the same tune as the US's "America" (better known for its first line, "My Country, 'Tis of Thee"), meaning it's likely to be confused.

 The Bells of Westminster and/or Big Ben, cut any way you like. So iconic it doesn't even need an establishing shot of the Palace of Westminster/St. Stephen's Tower/the Westminster Clock to go with it.

 In some contemporary works, 70s Punk Rock will be the official anthem of England. If the director wants to be even more hip, they'll use 90s techno.

 The first bars of the chorus of "Rule, Brittania".

 The Brass of USA - just about anything composed by John Philip Sousa (except perhaps the  The strings and horns of the West

 The War Drums of  The Saxophone of  The surf guitar of  The Banjo of the Deep South. Clucking chickens optional.

 Light jazz music usually tells you you're in San Francisco. Not because the music derives from the area, but because it fits the feel of the city that most filmmakers are shooting for.

 A warbling clarinet or sax, or something  Irish music in general, especially if you're dealing with  The ukulele and steel guitar of Hawaii.

 The wailing fiddle of Appalachian/Ozark poverty.

 The hammered dulcimer of idyllic rural settings.

 The guitar and/or harmonica of the lonesome prairie.

 Very time and/or place specifically, you'll frequently hear the music for the "Charleston" for 1920's America and specifically for Charleston, South Carolina at pretty much any time period. It's not even the state dance.

 An  The generic drums of   The flute of Egypt.

 Harmonic choral singing a la Ladysmith Black Mombazo.

 Rattles and shakers/rainsticks/ocean drums.

 Anything that's played in a  Silence, howling winds or 