Scotland is the country on the north of the British Isles. Historically an independent state, it was formally merged with England into the United Kingdom by a treaty in 1707. Its capital is Edinburgh (appointed as such in 1999, though it had been one for centuries prior to the 1707 treaty), while its largest city is the industrial center of glasgow.

Compare canada, eh? (more "English" Canadians claim Scottish ancestry than any other. Make of that what you will.)

The most famous thing about Scotland (to people overseas) is the kilt (the plural is "the kilt", by the way). These are mostly worn by men and have a variety of accessories, such as the sporran (a pouch worn on a loose belt) and a knife called Sgian Dubh ("Black Knife" in Gaelic), which can be carried in public (tucked into your over-the-calf sock) when worn with a kilt. A notable hat is the tam o'shanter, after a character in a robert burns poem.

Often in American (and even English) television, all Scots wear the kilt all the time. It also seems to be believed that they often go without underwear — especially when they compete in the Highland Games or when Highland Dancing. In reality you would almost never see a kilted person walking down the street, and if you do see one chances are he'd be on the way to a wedding or other festivities. Basically, in any situation where an American would wear a tuxedo, a Scotsman would wear a kilt. And underwear is actually required at the Highland Games and in Highland Dancing competitions! It's also a requirement to wear undergarments with rental kilts for far more grave reasons than embarrassment. Although if you own a kilt and are wearing it, it's far more common than is realised to go without underwear. It's more of a personal choice thing. You'll occasionally see a kilted person playing the bagpipes on certain high streets for charity or because they are part of an actual bagpiping club, but that's it.

In recent years this has changed somewhat, with some sport fans — mostly rugby and football — choosing to wear a casual version of the kilt and their team's jersey on the streets or to matches.

Private schoolgirls (mostly those in North America and a few other places) wear plaid skirts, which are not kilts — they just look an awful lot like them.

A number of Scottish military regiments use the kilt in their dress uniform, but have not seen action since 1940, not the least because of a very good and nightmare-tastic reason involving mustard gas puddles on the battlefield. During world war one, the Black Watch (now part of the Royal Regiment of Scotland, but retaining their name as the 3rd Battalion of it) were supposedly dubbed "the Ladies from Hell" by the Germans for their fierceness in battle.

The stereotypical "kilts, bagpipes, thistles, Highland cows" view of Scotland is often referred to as "the shortbreid-tin version", after the packaging in which shortbread biscuits/cookies are marketed to tourists.

The familiar feudal system which we know from Ivanhoe and king arthur and which comes to mind when we think of the phrase "Middle Ages" was actually far more limited in scope in history. In any case it only took partial root in Scotland. Instead, especially in the Highlands and the borderlands, feudalism was rather light and merged with the Celtic/Early Medieval pseudofamilial societies that we call the clan. There were several reasons for this, not least of which is that Scotland, unlike England, was never conquered by the Normans and retained much of its Celtic base.

A Clan was a tribal network named after its first patron. It included the chief, the clan elders and the clansfolk which were often the tenants of the chief as well. Each Clan operated like an independent principality — for instance, the MacDonalds, who held the title "Lords of the Isles" (i.e., Hebrides) were a great sea power in their own right, and had history been just a little bit different, they could have been an independent power or subjected to the Norwegian Crown. Several larger Clans could field several thousand warriors. The system ingrained itself into Scottish life and was a referent for delicate matters of internal politics. For instance one King of Scots, when deciding how the roma should be integrated into the system, simply declared one of them "Chief of the Egyptians" (Gypsies), effectively declaring them a new Clan. Another example is the title of the Scottish monarch, which is tribal rather then feudal in concept. The proper title is King (or Queen) of Scots. That is, the Queen of Scots (known more commonly by her English title elizabeth ii) is not the Lady of a manor named ScotLAND of which "Scotsfolk" are tenants; she is the chieftainess of a "clan of clans" named Scots which happens to possess SCOTland as its patrimony.

The Clan system along the English border was slightly different from that in the Highlands, forged from constant warfare with England, and which lasted even after (roughly) amiable relations were established during the reign of elizabeth of england and james vi of scotland (of course, how nasty can you get with your most acceptable likely heir?). When James succeeded his second-degree aunt, placing the kingdoms under the same ruler for the first time, the Border clans were ethnically cleansed. After that they tended to be resettled in areas where highly ferocious people could be out of sight of Westminster, but not out from indigenous peoples whom the Crown also found inconvenient. In Ireland they formed much of the ancestry of the Ulstermen. In North America they became the "Scots-Irish", settling in the Appalachians and further West, thus presaging the famous anti-gub'mint orneriness of these regions. The Highland Clans took longer to subdue. They tended to take the side of the House of Stuart in the various civil wars and were almost eliminated culturally after the Battle of Culloden in 1745. They were saved by two quirks of history. One was that it was realised that Highlanders made for useful soldiers and were as apt to serve the Crown as to rebel against it. The other was the Romantic literary movement, notably as represented by Sir walter scott. During this time ethnic exoticism became seen as colorful instead of dangerous, and the clans became fashionable in the ruling classes of Great Britain. Many of the customs we associate with the Clans in fact date from this period. For instance, the Tartans, or clan heraldry on the kilts, were in fact not standardized until this period. In another way, however, this was a bad time for the Highlands, as it was the time of the notorious Clearances in which landholders were evicting tenants for the sake of changing agricultural products; the largest landowners were of course their own chiefs who found that in a now pacified Scotland there was more status to be had from wealth than the number of followers (to be fair a few chiefs actually beggared themselves trying to protect their clans from economic conditions). Some of the evicted tenants survived by migration to North America (particularly Canada) and other places; others survived from the pay for soldiering and related work across the british empire.

Many began moving to Lowland cities, which thanks to the political and economic Union enacted in 1707 were beginning to experience the first stirrings of the industrial revolution. The Lowland Scots, being Presbyterians, had found much in common with the English Dissenters — Baptists, Congregationalists, Quakers, Unitarians, and of course presbyterians — who, except for the Quakers, were (like the Scottish Presbyterians) essentially Calvinist, agreeing for the most part on theology and differing in practice; and as for the Quakers, despite their weird theory and practice, their businesslike, hardworking, and agreeable ethos combined with the common experience of High Church Anglican disdain led most of the other Dissenters (English or Scottish) to give them a pass. The English Dissenters had pioneered the new industrial techniques, and eventually word of these new ideas came to the Lowland Scots, who began setting up their own factories and coming up with their own techniques. By the mid-19th century, the Lowlands were one of the most industrialised regions in the world—and were chock-full of labourers from the Highlands (and Ireland, but that's another matter), coming in via the new-built canals and railways. At this point, with so many people from all over Scotland not where they were before a mere thirty or forty years before, the Clan system had clearly become what it is today: more as a focus of identity then as the political system it once was.

It is a common fiction in Romantic depictions of Scotland to view the Clans as rugged individualists, fiercely pro-independence and pro-Stuart. This is not necessarily the case. Many clans simply did not conform to the rural, noble savage archetype created for them by later authors. Clans Campbell and Douglas enjoyed considerable influence and power within the urban government of Scotland pre and post Union. During the religious turmoil of the 16th and 17th centuries, many clans were happy to renounce the rule of the Pope. Similarly, many clans enthusiastically committed to Union with England and the equal prestige with the English aristocracy that this granted them. By the time the Jacobite rising of 1745 rolled around, the clans were split, when previously they had wholeheartedly supported the Stewarts. With the exception of the island and coastal clans, many stayed neutral during the Stewart conflict or supported the Government. Notably, of the largest and most powerful clans, the Campbells, the Douglases, the MacLeods, the MacDonalds, and the Mackenzies, all except the Mackenzies and MacDonalds stayed loyal to the British government, with the MacDonalds joining Charles Stuart and the Mackenzies staying neutral.

As an interesting bit of trivia, the word "clan" is a transliteration from "children" in Gaelic. For instance the MacBobs would be the "Children of Bob". This is a system of clan/tribal nomenclature that is familiar in several parts of the world including the Middle East as readers of the bible (which is largely about the "Children of Israel") will remember.

On a day-to-day basis, Scots follow the same "meat and potatoes" diet as the rest of the UK/Western World. Nevertheless, traditional dishes still coexist happily with the modern internationalised diet, McDonald's, KFC, Starbucks and the rest.

Scotland does have the dubious distinction of eating almost as unhealthily as America. Scots will deep-fry anything that will stand still long enough, so it's not surprising that Scotland has some of the worst rates of heart disease and bowel cancer in the Western world (just behind america).

Some Scottish foodstuffs include:

       The   The Scottish legal system has historically been different from that of england, and the separate legal system was guaranteed by the 1707 treaty, and diverged a bit more with devolution (but not much, since the main change is that the same separate Scottish law is now mostly made at Holyrood, rather than Westminster: it's still the same law). This leads to various quirks in Scottish law, such as the fact that to this day there is no statute against fraud. Another interesting quirk is that in Scotland, there are three court verdicts: Proven, Not Proven (otherwise known as "not guilty and don't do it again" or the "bastard verdict"), and Not Guilty. Owing to the prevalence of Anglo-American media, very few people in Scotland know this. Also, Scots receive more tax per capita than the English, which has caused a degree of outcry in the past. The justification given is that Scotland has a greater amount of sparsely populated rural areas than England and as a result, fewer schools, hospitals, etc. are needed. Some also argue that, were it a separate nation, Scotland would rightfully claim enough of Britain's North Sea gas deposits — which are held by the Union as a whole — to offset this apparent imbalance. It has also been observed that certain areas of England receive a similarly above-average revenue, particularly the former industrial heartland oop north, which has suffered from a similar post-industrial depression in recent decades.

The Act of Union also guaranteed a separate Established (though not state) Church. The Church of Scotland is Presbyterian, the Free Church of Scotland (sometimes known as the "Wee Frees") has no established status but a religious monopoly in most of the Western Isles and is even more Presbyterian (they take "T' S-habbath" like Orthodox Jews). Then again there's the Free Church (Continuing), the Associated Presbyterian Church and the Free Presbyterian Church (the "Wee Wee Frees"), all of which broke off from one and other over the past three centuries, which is all a bit people's front of judea. The Queen, official head of the Church of England (Episcopalian), is but a lay member of the Church of Scotland (albeit one who is the Church's designated "Protector") and somehow converts to a new religion every time she crosses the border. Incidentally, many members of the Royal Family lean towards the Church of Scotland rather than the Church of England; the Queen herself for one (possibly on account of her Scottish mother), and Queen Victoria was much the same.

The West of Scotland is also notorious for the sectarian feud between Catholics and Protestants, typically made manifest in the Old Firm: the bitter rivalry between Celtic and Rangers, Glasgow's most widely recognised football teams, with most Catholics aligning to the former and and Protestants the latter, and people asking "What team are you?" to ascertain one's religious denomination. Note that this question is also used by those of a less than social disposition as an indicator of whether or not you're allowed to live another day, and is always rhetorical — the correct answer is whichever team the enquirer supports, and wrong answers or attempts to take a third option often end in violence. A safe answer for the unsure is "Queen's Park", since, despite being one of Scotland's less-than-stellar teams, their home ground, Hampden Park, is the national stadium, and should instill enough patriotism in the attacker to allow you to escape to safer ground, or at least change the subject. Although present in other parts of Scotland such as Edinburgh and Dundee, nowhere else is the conflict so aggravated. It's also (far more prominently and scarily) present in Northern and even the Republic of Ireland.

There is a segment of Scottish society that wishes for independence. The Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP), the current ruling party of the devolved Scottish Parliament, bases its political platform around such a move, with an independence referendum held on 18th September 2014. Both nationalist Yes Scotland (led by Alex Salmond, at the time First Minister and leader of the SNP) and unionist Better Together (led by Alistair Darling of the Scottish Labour Party, and formerly Chancellor of the Exchequer under gordon brown) accused each other of fact-twisting and propaganda. Most British news outlets (such as the BBC) are commonly believed to be biased against independence, although most of them — especially the BBC — firmly deny it. The "Yes" side is still seen as Braveheart-watching England-haters, and the "No" side as Tories and other right-wingers who hate poor people and Scotland generally—there's a lot of history there. Finally, it's worth noting that the voting age for the referendum was pushed back to 16, compared to 18 for other elections in Scotland and the Union as a whole. The vote for under-16s is a reasonably hot topic, as one side claims young people will be easily swayed by propaganda instead of facts, while the other argues that it's a big decision for adults to be making over young people's lives.

On the 19th of September it was announced that the Scots voted in favour of staying in the Union, 55.3% against 44.7%, with an unusually (for Britain) high turnout of 84.6% — a fairly comfortable margin for the "No" side by any standard, but still narrow enough to shake things up a bit. A lot of people attributed this to the fact many businesses (including the Royal Bank of Scotland) threatened to leave Scotland if it became independent, not to mention promises by david cameron (and, oddly, emphasised by Brown, who, despite being hated by everyone after leaving Downing Street and having gone into semi-retirement as backbencher for his native Fife, proved to be their best advocate) to grant Scotland more devolutionary powers in exchange for choosing to stay. Salmond announced his resignation as First Minister the day after the results came in, stating he would not stand for reelection as SNP leader at the party conference in November. Meanwhile, the referendum has touched off a big debate about devolution not only for Scotland, but England as well, with many a Tory questioning certain asymmetries in the system that put England at a theoretical disadvantage, at the very least, in certain arenas (e.g., the West Lothian Question). With everyone more or less settled about further devolution for Scotland, the debate has now switched to the fate of England, between the Tories (who want devolution for the entire country) and Labour (who prefer regional devolution). Naturally, they think, respectively, that the Tories would be more or less in permanent control of an English Parliament, while Labour would at least have a chance of controlling some of the regional assemblies, e.g. Greater London and the North-West.

The Scottish Education system is also different, see british education system.

Glasgow has its own subway system, albeit much smaller than the london underground. It's nicknamed the Clockwork Orange for its colour, and the "Shoogly" for the ride quality. It's one big circle, with two lines running in opposite directions.

Finally, Scotland also has differing traditions for the holiday season. Christmas is traditionally less important (people working on Christmas Day is still quite common, and almost everyone is back at work by the 27th), with an increased emphasis on New Year's Eve (known as Hogmanay). Hogmanay is, more or less, a gigantic booze-up. Ceilidh music and the singing of Auld Lang Syne are also very common. Street parties are held - most famously in Edinburgh - and bbc scotland has an evening of programmes dedicated to it. Both New Year's Day and January 2nd are bank holidays in Scotland, basically to deal with the almighty hangovers from Hogmanay. Hogmany programming traditionally revolved around the late, great Rikki Fulton's  monologue prior to the bells. Over time this has been replaced with Chewin' the Fat and Still Game specials and football-themed sketch show Only an Excuse. The bbc coverage is often mocked as consistently being downright awful for some unfathomable reason.

Oh, and the Scots will take the piss out of just about anything. When England or America get hit by a Hurricane, they will give it a formal name. In Scotland? It will get named "Hurricane Bawbag". No. Really, We're not joking here.See also scotireland, violent glaswegian, everything's louder with bagpipes, man in a kilt, brave scot.

  Destro, weapons supplier of the evil Cobra organisation in  Wolfsbane from  Carl Barks's       Aideen from  Duncan McSmurf from                Ironically, the    Disney/Pixar's    Robert Louis Stevenson's novel       The   The  And don't forget  According to  Just about every Christopher Brookmyre book.

 In  In the     The "Highland warrior" romance novel is a genre unto itself. Expect fierce, rugged heroes in kilts, bonnie lasses, gloomy rugged castles, enormous Claymore swords, and  Several of                 In     Series/Highlander's main character was, oddly, from the highlands. Although by the time of the series his accent had faded, it was often seen in flashbacks, along with just about every other Scottish trope possible. Except for the Claymore; he used one in some flashbacks, but at some point he picked up a Japanese Katana instead and started using that for everything.

    Scotland has a large body of traditional and folk music, much of it dealing with Scottish life and history. The most prominent exponents of Scottish folk were The Corries, a duo comprised of Ronnie Browne and the late, great Roy Williamson, who helped popularise the folk revival of the '60s, and penned  The Exploited, one of the most famous anarcho-punk bands in the world, also credited with introducing the mohawk to the world at large.

 A range of '80s Scottish Bands:  And a range of '90s Scottish Bands: Arab Strap, Belle and Sebastian, Mogwai, and Teenage Fanclub.

  Shirley Manson, lead singer of   Sheena Easton.

 KT Tunstall.

 We are legally required to mention  Bis, the punk trio famous for being the only Indie band to ever play Top of the Pops and writing  Ian Anderson, lead singer of  The Bay City Rollers.

 '70s rockers Nazareth.

 Indie rock bands Frightened Rabbit (Selkirk), We Were Promised Jetpacks (Edinburgh) and the Twilight Sad (Kilsyth). All three bands have been making the rounds into the soundtracks of North American television and cinema and promote each other rather heavily.

   Scotland has a rich poetic traditional, including a great body of work in the Scots language, most famously the work of  William Topaz McGonagall is notorious as probably the worst-ever poet in British history; he is the  Like many countries Scotland has a base of traditional folklore in poetry and prose as well as more formally noted authors. The historian, soldier, and spy  Much like Scotty from  Scotland has a number of independent wrestling groups - including the Scottish Wrestling Alliance (SWA) who famously got a pay-off from  Notable Scottish wrestlers who are actually from Scotland include Drew McIntyre and The Highlanders (Robbie and Rory). "Superstar" Bill Dundee - of Memphis wrestling fame - was born in Scotland but raised in Australia.

  "Nanty Puts Her Hair Up" from  The Reduced Shakespeare Company's version of   "Unnecessary Farce" takes place in a small American city controlled by the "Scottish Clan" (with a 'C'), who employ Todd, aka the "Highland Hitman", who ties up his victims, and then dresses up in his kilt and tam, proceeds to torture them with his awful bagpipe playing, before putting them out of their misery. When angry, Todd's already affected accent becomes nigh-unintelligible.

 The Highland tribe levels in  The Scotland track in  The Rockstar North department of  Lilly Satou, one of the five heroines of the  John "Soap" MacTavish, one of the primary protagonists of the  The Demoman of  Sultry succubus Morrigan Aensland, of     Much of the mythology in  The     Newspapers provide us with  