Scotland, Northern Ireland and The Republic of Ireland condensed into the same place. The loch ness monster, leprechauns, bagpipes, shamrocks, threatening people with shillelaghs, potatoes, haggis, plaid (actual plaid, or tartan), kilts, clans, castles, caber tossing, and a lot of angry drunk people.

This is the only other part of the British Isles that's not london. In fact, the Republic of Ireland isn't politically part of britain, but if Hollywood can't get geography right then politics don't stand a chance. Wales sometimes gets lumped in as well, the few times it's featured outside of UK media. This trope is probably helped by the fact that the Scottish and Irish are both Celtic in origin, and have enough in common culturally to be distinguished from the Germanic Anglos without having a similarly clear distinction between themselves.

Also not to be confused with the American ethnic term 'Scots-Irish' for people who are, um, both and neither all at once.

The prevalence of this trope in American media is probably due to the fact that, to untrained U.S. ears, Scottish and Irish accents sound remarkably similar. This trope does not exist in Canadian media, however, as the Irish and the Scots are seen as completely distinct races. It's said that the longer an Irishman lives in Canada the more Canadian he gets, but the longer a Scotsman lives in Canada the more Scots he gets. Some Scotsmen have lived in Canada for so long that their accent has become completely indecipherable.

It's worth noting that there is a long history of cultural exchange between Ireland and Scotland, to the point that Scots-Gaelic and Irish Gaelic are considered mutually intelligible languages, and a good chunk of the northern irish population is descended from Scottish "planters", so the trope is somewhat rooted in fact, albeit much more loosely than their near-total conflation in modern media would seem to imply.

Compare britain is only london, spexico, ancient grome, and mayincatec. See also violent glaswegian, fighting irish, oireland, bonnie scotland. Oddly, Scottish actors and actresses have a disproportionate tendency to be cast as irish characters. Whether this is a side effect of this trope or whether it actually helps enforce it is anyone's guess.

