Ah, mexico. Home of the bustling, ancient and modern Mexico City, the gritty and industrial Monterrey, Puebla and its multiple hundred years of Spanish colonial history, the city called Guadalajara that mixes all the previous ones and adds a technological corridor, the heavenly beaches of Cancún and Los Cabos, the magnificent mountains of central Chihuahua and Durango, the lush wilderness of Yucatán...

Wait, what? Sorry, uh, we thought Mexico was home to, you know, stuff like the dí­a de los muertos, sombreros, lazy locals, burros (donkeys), tequila, chupacabras, luchadores, piñatas, chili, incredibly spicy food, lots of beans, and a bunch of rundown, filthy adobe huts in the middle of the desert or desperately poor, grubby towns that American criminals will escape to.

As per this trope, the population of Mexico comprises six types of people: kidnappers, kidnappees, corrupt police, rich landowners, people without money and people who claim that the country is going down the drain, but do nothing about it. Go back a few years, and you'll also find Bandidos.

If you are a wasp (and heroes often are), don't go down alleys, you will be surrounded by big, smirking, sweaty bullies who jeer and mock in Spanish, the only intelligible word being gringo (roger ebert's book names these guys the Latino Laughers). You'll have to fight them.

Mexico City itself has played host to various films: Dune, Conan the Destroyer, Licence to Kill, Honey, I Shrunk the Kids, Total Recall (1990), and Kung Pow! Enter the Fist. Reports are often that the Mexican authorities make things hard for the foreign production crews.

Oh, and don't drink the water.

If you turn the clock back several centuries, expect to find jungle, terraced pyramid-temples, elaborately costumed high priests with obsidian blades who are really after your heart, and maybe some greedy conquistadores.

Occasionally, may be further obfuscated with other Central and South American countries into a greater latin land, or with spain into spexico. South of the Border is a proud member of the savage south.

and no; like all stereotypes, not all mexicans are like that.Note: This has nothing to do with the Fireworks Store and tourist trap, South of The Border, located 400 feet south of the border with the State of North Carolina in Dillon, South Carolina.

   As part of its arc of visiting    The        On  As quoted above,  There's a famous American Tourist Trap along Interstate 95 called "South of the Border" (which is in fact just south of the border—between North and South Carolina) that plays all manner of Mexican stereotypes to the hilt, from the Cinco de Mayo decor to their mascot, an amiable Mexican sluggard named Pedro. It is primarily famous for its   In  Exception:  The MMORPG  Part of  Any  The first episode (not counting the pilot) of      The Kamp Krusty episode of  