Fiction writers seem to not just confuse mexico and spain, but to fuse them into a strange amalgam of the most general stereotypes of both, much as scotireland fuses Scotland and Ireland. Maybe it's because they share a language and religion, the fact that Mexico used to be a Spanish colony, they both have exotic foods and customs compared to an Anglo-Saxon culture, or simply that the author didn't check the facts and hasn't travelled much, either.

American writers (and particularly those in california) also have the excuse that Mexico is literally over the border from the US while Spain is an ocean away, so the more familiar Mexican culture to them colours their perception of Spain. This approach, naturally, requires the writer to ignore that Mexican culture owes as much to the native cultures that existed there before the Spanish conquest as it does to Spain's (although Hollywood has never showed its strength when having to keep those apart either), that Mexico is more influenced by US culture than Spain is, and that the two countries are, simply put, an ocean apart from each other and have been not under the same flag for nearly two centuries now, meaning that they have had ample room to develop independently from each other - be it in law, politics, holidays, food, dress, music or language. Indeed, not only do they speak different dialects of Spanish in Spain and Mexico (the epic wars between supporters of Spaniard and Latin American dubs in youtube are testament to that) but there are several different accents and dialects within each country that can be very different compared to each other.

In short, equating Spain and Mexico is like saying that the United Kingdom and the United States are basically the same.

In its usual form, this trope is represented by a group or town that is full of stereotypically mexican or spanish people, set in a location or doing an activity better suited to the other. That is, when they aren't just made into a mish-mash. It could be a Spanish mariachi band at a wedding instead of a tuna singing Clavelitos, or a town of thick-mustachioed men in sombreros and ponchos dancing Flamenco. When south of the border and latin land are brought into the mix, it could even end with Spain being depicted as a hot, tropical jungle or desert full of revolutionary outlaws, sometimes fighting a banana republic run by a Fascist dictator (which might have been technically true during Franco's dictatorship, except there are no tropical jungles in Spain. But it's definitely false in anything set after 1978, and that being generous).

US productions are likely to misrepresent Spaniards more often than Mexicans, since Mexicans have many more demonstrable stereotypes in American pop-culture than Spaniards do, and they will likely have a much easier time casting Mexican actors (or from anywhere else in Latin America) than Spanish ones, accents and even race be damned. In Japan, where both nations are equally exotic, the mix and mash is likelier to happen both ways.

See toros y flamenco and south of the border for hollywood atlas versions of Spain and Mexico, respectively. Contrast latin land for a similar fusion of different countries south of the United States in a process not that different of Spexico, with only jungle or llamas added for flavor depending on the circumstances, and narcoterrorists if convenient.

Compare far east, ancient grome, scotireland, and mayincatec. Spexico is not the only example of transatlantic fusion, however: a similar phenomenon occurs with depictions of Quebec in Hollywood movies as being full of Frenchmen with Parisian accents and mannerisms, and outside the Anglosphere some people can't see the difference between the UK and the USA either.

 Verizon, as seen in  One episode of the   Viggo Mortensen was cast as a swashbuckling hero in the Spanish  Many Spanish-speaking actors are cast as other nationalities within the Spanish-speaking world. This isn't particularly surprising given how often all actors play characters of different ethnic backgrounds than their own.

  In  In  Most astounding example in    In "Princess Mariana and Lixo Island", it is never specified where Mariana lives. Is she in Latin America, or the Iberian Peninsula? The location has access to the ocean (so it is not a landlocked country) and relatively warm weather- but the actual inhabitants, flora, and fauna could be part of both Iberian countries, as well as many Latin American countries.

 Take a band of Zapatistas. The more indigenous the better. Then drop them in  In   Played straight by Blanche about her Cuban suitor in an episode of  In the Season 5  One episode of  The  In the 8th season of  A background news piece in  One episode of  The 1970s rock band Carmen, which was formed by Mexican-Americans in Los Angeles, invoke this trope through the use of flamenco stylings and Spanish imagery. Considering they were formed as an outgrowth of the Allen siblings’ parents’ flamenco nightclub it’s   There was considerable cross-fertilization between Spanish and Mexican culture, back when Mexico was "New Spain," and some practices they picked up from each other persist to this day. Both countries enjoy churros and hot chocolate, though their traditional recipes now differ, and bullfighting is still practized in both nations.

 The word "Hispanic" used to be common on survey forms, literally meaning "Of or relating to Spain or Spanish-speaking Latin America." Not that the word Latin is much better (it's actually  The central Mexican city of Guanajuato (in the state of the same name) fits this trope. It is a very well preserved colonial town that closely resembles remote villages in Spain that have not changed much since the Middle Ages. At first glance, Guanajuato is practically indistinguishable from such villages apart from the fact that the population is of course Mexican rather than Spanish. Playing on the town's colonial heritage are bands whose members dress like sixteenth century Spanish noblemen but play traditional Mexican songs of various genres. Furthermore, you can eat tacos or enchiladas and drink micheladas in little inns that seem to have come right from a  A case of  John McCain starred a quite strange moment during an  Spanish-born filmmaker  Reportedly, the  In Paris, there are quite a few 'Tex-Mex' restaurants that serve Spanish food.

 On a train from Barcelona to Zaragoza, you might be surprised to see how much the landscape of the Spanish countryside looks like classic depictions of southwestern North America (almost like a  Castille in  While  Likewise, Esteban Noviembre from  In  Spain Hill is a location in  Black Velvetopia in  An  In the episode   In the 1930's     Subverted in one episode of 