...when it's not Rio de Janeiro.

Some country somewhere in latin land; the spoken language is Spanish, like everywhere in Latin Land. It is composed by only one state (which is overrun by the Amazon forest) called São Paulo, whose capital is Rio de Janeiro, but it is also called Buenos Aires. Every Brazilian woman is stunningly beautiful, and has a beautiful bunda (that's Spanish for "arse", right?). By the way, whenever you're in a Brazilian city, it'll be a favela (what Brazilian people call shantytowns), which is a place that makes the industrial era slums look like bright utopias; there are monkeys in the city streets, and large cats, and alligators ... and the occasional anaconda. The state has no military whatsoever, or schools; civilization is at a never-ending war against the natives. Finally, everyone is junkyard poor.

Whenever you see a Brazilian (or really, any South American) in fiction, expect him to look like a stereotypical Mexican or Latino. Also, whenever the hero goes to Brazil for whatever reason it will be during carnaval. always. Well, it would be easier to just make a list of what is wrong with Brazil on fiction:

Brazil, as with other Latin American countries, is a constant victim of research failure, as most people around the world only know Brazil from tropes like this; as repeatedly mentioned above, Brazil is kinda like the United States, except that it has jungles to speak of (hawaii barely counts for the usa), was a quasi-single party state from 64 to 84, has more social-inequality problems (caused in no small part by said dictatorship), and speaks portuguese. The social inequality has been changing a little in very recent times, though.

And for the record, the real capital of Brazil is Brasília, which is no hamlet itself at 2.5 million people. Rio used to be the capital up until April 21, 1960, when Brasília was founded by then-Brazilian President Juscelino Kubitschek (see? With a Czech name like that, he could be from Chicago!) It even is considered a World Heritage Site by UNESCO (Buenos Aires is not in Brazil at all, but neighboring Argentina). Brasília actually represents another similarity between Brazil and the United States: like washington, dc, it was a city built from the ground up to be the national capital, in a less than desirable physical environment (Washington DC was built on a swamp, Brasilia was built in middle of (swampy) jungle) and their metropolitan areas are similar in population.

Finally, it's probably useful to know that Brazil and Argentina (the country whose capital is actually Buenos Aires) have an old historical rivalry, even though nowadays it is mostly tongue-in-cheek and mainly reduced to sports.

