The Midlands is between oop north and london. Home to Brummies. not the domain of the mother confessor. (and especially not that mother confessor!)

It broadly corresponds to the old Kingdom of Mercia (the dialect influenced Tolkien) and is split by the UK government into the west midlands and East Midlands regions, this split is currently only used for statistical purposes and as constituencies during european elections.

The Midlands is usually considered to contain the historic counties of Staffordshire, Worcestershire, Herefordshire, Shropshire, Warwickshire, Northamptonshire, Rutland, Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire and Derbsyhire. Oxfordshire, Bedfordshire, Gloucestershire and Huntingdonshire are occasionally considered part of the Midlands but fall outside the regions of the West Midlands or the East Midlands and are more often considered parts of the west country, east anglia or the home counties. Lincolnshire is part of the East Midlands region but it's northern part falls inside the Yorkshire and Humber region and the county is often excluded from being part of the Midlands because of it's large coastline.

The largest cities of the Midlands include birmingham, Coventry, Stoke-on-Trent, Nottingham, Derby and Leicester. Somewhat deprived in places, birmingham and Nottingham currently have a rather bad reputation for gun crime.

The cities of the Midlands are noted for having a larger than usual percentage of ethnic minorities, particularly Leicester, where the percentage of minorities now outweighs the white ethnic Englishmen and nobody even cares.

Midlanders are often thought of as being stupid, possibly due to most accents being non-rhotic with vowels so sloppy that they can successfully drag on any nearby consonants too. This results in the Midlands Drawl, which involves either taking as long as you can to say as little as you can, or saying as much as you can as slowly as you can. the black country accent makes people assume 'thickie' whereas a Staffordshire accent is more generic. An East Midlands accent actually sounds much like oop north to the untrained ear.

By a quirk of geography, the Midlands are actually slanted so "the North West" region is actually further south than the centre of the East Midlands.

    A film version of  Nottingham of course gives us one of fiction's most famous bad guys, the Sheriff of Nottingham. The title wasn't created until 1449, long after the start of the Robin Hood story but it still exists and was recently held by a woman, Jeannie Packer (who referenced Robin Hood on her biography page).

 In   One or two vermin in the   J.R.R. Tolkien stated that in   Richard Hammond of  Eric Idle's  Timothy Spall is famous for portraying TV Brummies, despite not actually being from Birmingham. It started with   Sibling actors Michael Socha (Tom in   Russell and Reggie, the protagonists of  Zimmy and Gamma of  Going by a plot-point involving the exact geographic centre of the UK, and one rather specific cultural reference, many of the central cast of     Thom Yorke of Radiohead and  East Midlands Airport has been renamed multiple times because almost no one from outside Britain has heard of the East Midlands. They tried to get it renamed to Nottingham Airport at one point, because more people have heard of this, but as the airport actually isn't in Nottingham at all, or even Nottinghamshire, this raised objections from the other two cities the airport serves, Leicester and Derby.

 Comedian  All the members of the psychedelic rock band Traffic were from the West Midlands.

    The Stamper Brothers, who founded a company called Ashby Computers and Graphics (literally in the middle of the country - Ashby is about a mile off being the most central point in the UK) which after a period as Ultimate Play the Game, changed its name to Rare, creators of  John Deacon of  The city of Coventry historically has been the "Motor City" of Britain, headquarters to many automobile companies, most notably Jaguar.

 Sir Frank Whittle, inventor of the jet engine, was born in Coventry.

 Robert Plant and John Bonham, singer and drummer respectively, of   Pro wrestler "Gentleman" 