So, you want to introduce a European immigrant to your North American-based show. You want the character to get up to lots of fish out of water fun as his crazy traditions clash with modern American life, marvel at the amazing wealth of Americans and contrast it with the poverty of his homeland, and provide incisive whoopi epiphany speeches about how different life was back in his one-tractor peasant town, all while talking in an outrageous accent. So, their homeland needs to be poor, backward, simple, oppressive, rustic and pastoral, with crazy traditions and, of course, a distinctive accent.

There's just one problem - if you claim this geographic hodgepodge is a real country, you'll get a lot of complaints from nationals of that country, either because you've totally misrepresented their traditions, or because you've just described them as a bunch of uneducated peasants. So, the best route to take is to ignore the country issue altogether: Whenever you need to have your character talk about his origins, have them call it "the old country".

The old country is usually a ruritania or überwald, with splashes of bavaria, the mediterranean, the Former Soviet Union, scandinavia and scotireland. Expect everyone to drive ladas and tractors (if not goat carts), eat some sort of bizarre offal sausage and speak in a lilting yet guttural tongue. May be a case of where the hell is springfield?Note that this has definitely not been truth in television since the nineties in the east and the sixties in the west. Most of Western and Northern Europe is as urbane, cosmopolitan, and wealthy as the United States (Scandinavia in particular being considerably richer per capita, at least nominally), and even Eastern Europe (with a couple of exceptions) is doing a lot better now than in the cold war days. And naturally, the people that come from such developed countries are not going to be poor, unlettered stereotypical 19th century central european jews.

 There's a short story in Neil Gaiman's  The titular character in  Several of Jack O'Connell's   Let us not forget  The original   A recurring character on  Pierre, on  Borderline instance on an early episode of   Typical   In  Rolf from  In  Didi's parents on  Parodied on  Tish's family in  Troper  There's actually a region in northern Germany called 