The hollywood atlas version of Iberian countries (mostly Spain with possible addition of elements from Portugal, Andorra, etc.).

You know, that place where all the women dress in tiered skirts, and all the males in chaqué, where the landscape consists of mountains, red dry hills and beaches, and every night (because there's siesta all day anyway) passionate tall, dark and handsome toreadors with roses in their teeth escape from stampeding bulls while playing guitars, and equally passionate spicy latina gypsies with roses in their hair, daggers in their garters and fans in their hands throw oranges at them while dancing flamenco. ¡Olé!If you don't know why this trope fails that much at Geography, you should know that the Running of the Bulls (celebrated on the week beginning the 7th of July on the day know as "San Fermín") is celebrated only in Pamplona. The "Feria de Abril" (April Fair) where women actually dress with tiered spotted skirts and men wear chaqués is celebrated only in Seville. The distance between those cities is over 600 miles. Yet in fiction, both seem to happen at the same time and place.

Additionally, the Running is often portrayed as featuring hundreds of bulls on a murderous stampede. In real life, though, there's generally no more than fifteen bulls, released in groups of four to six, and they're often surrounded by a larger crowd of people, including a group running around them to keep them following the right path. Bonus points if the work even decides to portray the correct path they follow, or simply has them rampaging through any of the city's streets freely.

Also, this Iberian country is always Spain. Portugal? What's a Portugal?

Toros Y Flamenco is one of the most popular origin countries for a latin lover.

See also latin land, which shares many elements with this trope, due to strong historical and cultural ties between Iberia and South American countries. Sometimes confused or amalgamated (by hack authors) with south of the border into spexico due to the same strong historical and cultural ties plus the similar climate.

Sometimes coincides with it's always mardi gras in new orleans, when a visit to Pamplona (or any other town in Iberia if the author is particularly lazy) is destined to happen exactly on the week of the Running of the Bulls.

In real life Spain this trope is known as Españolada.

