Every nation-state and (multi-national) country in the world has a unique series of cultures and traditions, and even the smallest of the world's nation-states (e.g. Singapore) has numerous diverse cultures and traditions. However, personal experience and common knowledge aside, you probably couldn't tell that just from consuming entertainment media.

Often, when writing a story set in another country, the writer basically takes their own country and substitutes in some foreign (or 'foreign') names, and might refer to a famous local festival or two if you're lucky. If you're not, it will be the writers' own country half-dressed-up as a land of hats in "the local style". If you find an author who demonstrates a more-than-superficial understanding of other countries and cultures, cherish them - for they have a gift.The title is inspired by (but is not a direct quote of) a line in the rammstein song "Amerika", which is about the spread of american values and culture across the globe.

Please note that, despite the trope name, this is not an exclusively American phenomenon; writers from other countries will often project their own cultural mores, vernacular, and sense of geography onto countries other than their own, including the United States, as well. Most common is the strange tendency to treat all the landmarks and major cities of a country that spans an entire continent as if they are within a couple hours' drive of each other. However, writers from non-American English-speaking nations writing chiefly for an American audience will often do this too.

super trope of socalization, when American media, most of which is produced in or around los angeles, wrongly assumes that aspects of life in L.A. are the same at a national level.

Compare creator provincialism, in which nothing important happens outside the writer's home country. politically correct history is the temporal version of this. Also compare canada does not exist, a weird mutation of this trope that Canadian TV producers often impose upon themselves in order to sell their shows in America.

Contrast eagleland osmosis, where the influence of another country's media (chiefly the United States') causes people to do this to their own society. See also values dissonance, which is perhaps the most compelling reason why this trope doesn't work.

