A chain of tropical paradises mostly between Florida and South America. The Caribbean is known for cruises, beaches, resorts, and the occasional pirate infestation. Beware of the bermuda triangle, while you're at it, too. Includes Puerto Rico, Jamaica, Virgin Islands, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and others.

Calypso or rhumba music is constantly being played, there's free fruit everywhere, everyone is constantly drunk and/or high, and may have a pet parrot. Nobody does any work, they just sit on the beach sipping fruity little drinks with umbrellas out of coconuts. At night, the careless or unlucky might see a voodoo ceremony.pirate attacks have to be dealt with, even in modern times. Except now they use machine guns instead of cutlasses and are less romanticized.

This trope excludes the Latin Caribbean islands such as Cuba and Puerto Rico, and includes the northern South American countries of Guyana and Suriname. Jamaica is a specialized case, mostly due to a perceived abundance of Reggae and Rastafari folks with a penchant for the "wisdom weed". The Bahamas is often mistaken for Jamaica much to the chagrin of BOTH countries' citizens. This is despite, however, a minority of Rastafarians in Jamaica.

If you find white people here in contemporary times they're likely to be sitting on a yacht, playing croquet or cricket, or lounging around in white suits and reading a newspaper in the lobby of a hotel that's seen better days. This is often used as the final scene of a movie, illustrating that a karma houdini character made a successful run for the border.

Also known as The Spanish Main. Because it used to be full of Spaniards and their loot.

Has nothing to do with mon, mon.

 The commercials for Malibu rum seem to invoke this trope, despite the fact that Malibu is located in California. The rum itself, however, was invented in Curacao.

 There have been two one-shot comics with the  The   The movie     At the end of  Spoofed in the comedy   Neil Gaiman's  Harry Maybourne escapes to such a place in one epsiode of  Part one of the  The song "Kokomo" by the Beach Boys.

  Steel drum music is another bit of Trinidad & Tobago culture that is commonly used as a generic "island" music cue in popular culture. Notice that "Kokomo" uses steel drums and mentions a dozen tropical locales but not Trinidad or Tobago.

 Parts of the album   The original radio version of   Sky and Sarah's trip to Havana in  The   The trolls of    Rayne of    The  In a 