

The hollywood atlas version of Switzerland, as well as Bavaria, Austria, Northern Italy, and other regions in or near the Alps — in fact, any place in Germany is also frequently part of yodel land in the hollywood atlas.

A quick guide:

Scenery:

 The Alps:

 The valleys:

 The Black Forest (which isn't part of any of the aforementioned regions)

Appearance:

 Men:

 Women:

 General:

Professions:

 Bankers (Male)

 Cheesemakers (Male)

 Chocolatiers (Male)

 Clock/watchmakers (Male)

 Woodcarvers (Male)

 Cow/goat/shepherds (Usually children; more often male than female, but females do appear occasionally.)

 Alpinists (or guides) (Male)

 Ski resort owners (Male)

 Innkeepers (Male)

 Beautiful blonde-braided  Waitresses (See above)

 Spies ( Hunters (or more commonly, poachers).

Cuisine:

 Cheese

 Chocolate

 Fondue (may be either chocolate or cheese)

 Brandy

 Beer (especially around  Schnitzel, usually wienerschnitzel

 Sausages

 Dark rye bread

 Strudel

Wildlife:

 Goats

 Cows with big clanking bells

 Sheep

 Saint Bernard dogs (usually  Gulls

 Ibexes (always aggressive against whomever)

 Groundhogs

 Mountain wildflowers, especially edelweiss.

Misc. culture:

  Swiss army knives with 293,487,569,234,756 blades, including absurd/funny ones

 Extremely precise Swiss watches

 Cuckoo clocks, though they weren't in fact invented in Switzerland or anywhere else in the Alps.

 Alphorns and the  Rustic carved wooden bears

  Dancing the laendler

Cultural values:

 Neutrality

 Hospitality

 Prosperity

 Pedantism



Never shown :

 Geneva

 Switzerland's eventful military history

 Switzerland's major role in the Reformation

 Any place in Lower Austria, including  The rivers and the traffic on them

May overlap with oktoberfest, given the German influence in the region, or with norse by norsewest due to confusing switzerland with sweden. The Spanish-speaking people make the latter confusion because in the language both countries names ("Suiza" and "Suecia" respectively) are way more similar. Same goes for Russians ("Shveytsariya" and "Shvetsiya").

See switzerland for a more nuanced depiction. Also see william telling.

 Often depicted in Ricola commercials.

 Invoked in   St. Ives health-and-beauty products

 Swiss Miss hot cocoa mix

 Extremely frequent in milk or milk product commercials in the aforementioned countries.

 Toaster Strudel

     While probably one of the overall best depictions of Germany in any anime, Berlin in     A fairy tale called   The  The  Many   Most of the action in the original  The  Most of  Partially subverted in the 1978 film  Many German or Austrian  Invoked  In David Drake and S.M. Stirling's    The "Cliff Hangers" game on  In one episode of   The city of Merano, South Tyrol (currently Italian, "used to be Austrian") sometimes is a setting in the musical    "Switzerland" is a bonus in  The town of Spielburg in  Hildegard von Krone from the  Switzerland appears as one of the national rally championships in   In the  Uter from  The  Heinrich von Sugarbottom of  In  The Disney animated film   Sven Hoek from  The sausage cult (yes, really) in the 