A type of speculative fiction (sometimes called "Uchronia") set in a world where one or more historical events unfolded differently than they did in the real world. Often set some time after the event (called a "point of divergence", or PoD, by fans of the genre), such stories typically describe a present day world vastly changed by the difference, or follow another major historical event in light of the change. Sometimes linked with a time travel story — the point of divergence is often caused by travelers from "our" timeline (OTL in Alt-history parlance) seeking to effect a desired change. The protagonists may be original characters or actual historical figures. lampshade hanging occurs often in these types of stories (an allohistorical allusion); often, a character will stop to muse on what the world would be like if history had gone the way it did in the real world. Which, we suppose, is truth in television... after all, lampshading this trope is the entire point of alternate histories.

The setting of an alternate history is often described as a what if?. Popular alternate history settings include:

 What if  What if  What if the rebels had won  What if  What if X Religion (Buddhism, Christianity, Happyology, etc.) never caught on? Or caught on somewhere different?

 What if the  What if  What if the  What if a certain tools or weapons (firearms, radio, space travel) had been  What if a particular presidential election had  What if the  What if an important  What if an important  What if one  What if something  Often, the change's ultimate source is for want of a nail. If "historically unimportant" characters are involved, expect in spite of a nail.

A secondary type, sometimes called "honorary alternate history", consists of speculative fiction stories written a considerable period of time ago, and set in a time period which has since passed. This is what happens to stories set twenty minutes into the future when the twenty minutes have passed. robert a. heinlein's Future History series of stories is an example of this type, as is everything that fell victim to the great politics mess-up.

Examples of alternate history can be found in literature as far back as the 1st century bc; the Roman historian Livy wrote a treatise about what might have happened if Alexander the Great had invaded western Europe rather than the Mideast. The genre has become increasingly popular since the late 20th century, perhaps because it was a tumultuous century rich in "what if" opportunities, though TV and movie versions are less common. And given the material, it's not beyond the imagination to consider them fan fiction of history itself.

In real life, Counterfactual History is a real discipline, looking at reasonable conjectures. For example, historians have carefully examined the threat of invasion of Britain by Germany in 1940 and suggested that, though British defense was rushed and rudimentary at that point, so were German attack plans. Thus, Germany would almost certainly have established a beach head, but would not have succeeded in maintaining it. Unlike its literary equivalent, scholarly counter-factual history tends to focus on the short-term effects, as extrapolating long-term trends into the future has proven to be tricky even for what did happen.

For less drastic changeovers (such as slight differences between their world and ours), see never was this universe. Some settings will undo these changes with rubber-band history.

It is different from an alternate universe, where the difference is in the fictional elements of the story. "What if Superman's ship landed in soviet russia?" or "What if Charles Xavier died before creating the x-men?" are examples. However, the alternate universe may lead to alternate history as well: alternate reed richards may change human society, Dr. Doom may give up ruling latveria and begin to conquer or destroy actual countries, or Red Skull may be elected president. In those cases, the alternate history is a side consequence, not the basic premise.

The plausibility and realism of alternate history is measured on the sliding scale of alternate history plausibility, an analogue of the mohs scale of sci-fi hardness. More examples are on the alternate history literature page. See Also the alternate history tropes index. If the differences are unintentional, see artistic license - history.

Closely related to alternate universe. A lot of times, this can result in ocs, if written as fanfiction. Supertrope to weird historical war.

