Often, fictional extraterrestrials have bizarre names with z's, g's, and apostrophes. So it should come as no surprise to any genre savvy science fiction viewer that the planets, moons, stars, and other celestial objects from which the aliens hail carry on this strange tradition — despite the fact that they still use the Latin alphabet and their names can still be pronounced by English speakers?Most of these planets use lots of "weird" consonants (ones that are often utilized in scrabble babble), like X, K, Z, Q, R, and N. Given their underuse in regular words, using them in alien contexts works all the better for writers.

Among other variants include planets that follow the "X-tar" or "X-lar" pattern. A few planets have names that end with "I". Often, they're punny names.

Sometimes, it becomes a brick joke when a planet like this is first introduced, then finds itself used for scrabble babble (as mentioned above).

A sub-trope of law of alien names. Compare numbered homeworld and naming your colony world for other ways to name a planet. See also xtreme kool letterz and a villain named zrg. Descriptively named planets go under descriptiveville.

   The trope is   Some of the planets of  One of the main planets in  Planets mentioned in the  Some of the planets in  The eponymous  Downplayed example:  Rita Repulsa and her crew, when making some monsters to combat the  Several planets from   A famous example is Planet Vulcan from  According to Scientology, the planet we live on was previously called "Teegeeack" before Xenu deposited humanity there.

 The Mormons have Kolob, described as the planet/star closest to God's throne.

 The original  The Zorgons of  An extremely early   Each level in  Some of the planets in Milky Way Wishes from   Planets in  The    Planet Bazoik in     Irk from  The Yolkians, whose home planet Yolkus features prominently in the  The planet Marklar from   Yugopotamia from  The scientists who decide on official planet names tend to not approve too exotic-sounding monikers unless they are based in ancient mythology, but every once in a while 