A trope where a planet has two suns in the sky. Occurs primarly in sci-fi settings, but certainly isn't limited to it.

There are three realistic possibilities for this arrangement:

 Type I: "Twin Suns" - The suns rise and fall with each other, indicating that the suns orbit each other closely and the planet orbits both of them.

 Type II: "Close Stars" - The suns may occupy different parts of the sky, indicating that one sun orbits the other farther out than the planet.

 Type III: "1 1/2 Suns" - The planet has one "Sun", with night and day according to it, but another star in the same system is identifiable as a small sun that contributes some heat and sometimes leaves night more like twilight. This indicates that the planet orbits a single star in a double-star system, and the stars orbit each other at a large enough distance for one or both to have its/their own separate habitable zone(s). This is by far the most likely arrangement in reality as far as habitable planets go.

There are also unrealistic and unstable configurations:

 Type IV: "Between Two Suns" - The planet is positioned between two suns, providing for an endless day.

 Type V: "Figure 8" or similar - The planet orbits one sun, then the other, in a regular way. If the suns of Type I are too far from each other, it may also become this.Type IV and V would realistically decay into:

 Type VI: "Chaotic Orbit" - A planet in chaotic orbit might exist, but wouldn't be able to support life. Also, the chaotic orbit would eventually throw the planet into one of the suns, or out of the system.Their prevalence in science fiction is actually an example of reality is unrealistic, because binary stars are in fact much more common than single stars like our Sun, although it is uncertain how likely it is that habitable planets would form in the presence of two suns (for the sake of rule of cool, though, it's best not to ask). So there is still some artistic license - astronomy involved.

A sub-trope of alien sky.

