Particle physicists have written much on the possibilities of multiple universes. every single subatomic possibility spawns its own unique universe, each of which in turn spawns new universes from each of its own subatomic possibilities, creating the vast web of the multiverse. And so, the reasoning goes, somewhere out there in that vast sea, why couldn't there lie universes wherein the events of our favorite tv shows, video games, and other media properties actually happened?The Daydream Believers are a subgroup found in several fandoms who believe that the events, characters and places depicted in the object of fandom are, in some form or another, real. This is often handwaved by taking alternate universes into account. After all, if there are infinite universes out there, at least one of them must resemble the one from the TV show/movie/book/video game, right?

trapped in tv land, refugee from tv land, and welcome to the real world all play upon this variant of the trope.

The most common versions of this sort of fandom, of course, (and immensely more popular than the hard-core versions) are those which take this sort of hypothesis as speculation, albeit with a grain of salt. For non-believers, these could be considered recursive canon.

A sister trope to cannot tell fiction from reality.

      Works that postulate the existence of a Works that attract daydream believers tend to mass-produce meta wild mass guessing. Persons who intellectually know that something isn't real, but insist it would be better if it were real, have their own separate trope, longing for fictionland. The less-extreme version of this is mythopoeia, where the author is satisfied with achieving versimilitude, by building a fully fleshed-out world on paper.

Note that all this does not include speculative non-fiction or historical works, published with respect to things that the author believes or predicts, such as philosophy, religion, historical fiction or works that purport to reenact events as they "might have really occurred" on which the myths are based. Such works do not count as daydream believing, however, the reader may insist it can only have happened exactly that way as depicted in the work. Also, pulp fantasy and adventure-based soft sci-fi, which do not postulate their own existence and are meant to be enjoyed as brain candy, are not typically attractive to the "casual" daydream believer. However, such works may still be subject to arguments over what really happened. A few believe that the story happened in  "Soulbonders" are people who feel they have some sort of emotional, spiritual, or mental connection with fictional characters. This ranges from rational people who realize that their "soulbond" is a mental imprint of the character and not the character itself (and therefore technically don't fit this trope) to those who believe they've actually  "Otakin" or "Otakukin" believe that they  "Plurals" is a label used by people who believe they have multiple personalities or persons sharing the same body (multiples). "Multiple systems," on the other hand, often find that they function better if the different persons learn to cooperate with one another; in fact, many of them find it impossible to integrate successfully. In some cases, the personalities who co-inhabit their bodies are characters from works of fiction. (See "soulbond," above.) As strange as it seems (remember that this is the Internet) and as hard as we try, we are not making any of this up. For the nonbelievers, the fun begins when one group argues their belief is more realistic than the others.

The trope takes its name from a song by the monkees, though the song is not explicitly about an example of this trope (at least not in this universe...) Compare epileptic trees, i just want to be special, longing for fictionland, special snowflake syndrome.

See defictionalization for a justification.

recursive canon is when works allege themselves to be actually happening in the world of the story, which usually takes the form of one of the examples mentioned up top (literary agent hypothesis, the multiverse, transfictionality, etc.) For more on such mind screw scenarios, see recursive reality, where a work postulates the existence of one world hidden within another.

ascended fanboy and i wish it were real are the fictional version of this trope. viewers in mourning may sometimes teeter on this.

