Whenever the dark lord rises to gather his armies and bring destruction upon the lands of men, elves, dwarves and the race of funny midgets, he always, always, always does this from a stronghold built in the most frigid, dark, frigid, remote, frigid, cold, benighted corner of the wasteland that in most cases is simply called "the North".

This trope may stem from how generally inhospitable the North often is to human (and other) life. While a gentle cover of snow can imply romance, and snow can often be used to create an incredibly beautiful and peaceful otherworldly air, when taken to blizzard-level extremes it becomes an icy hell. As many forms of always chaotic evil creatures are somehow protected from extreme cold- for example, the undead simply don't care about temperatures- the North is an environment where the Forces of Good are often at a disadvantage.

It might also have its roots in Medieval history, as the vikings would often come from Scandinavia to the European coastlines for some good ol' rape, pillage, and burn; hey, beats fishing. even before that, one of the constant threats to the roman empire were the Celtic and Germanic barbarians to its north. History repeats the pattern elsewhere; in Asia, the Mongol hordes were from the frigid steppes and the surprisingly cold Gobi Desert, north of China proper. In Africa, the colonial invaders of the 17th-20th centuries were mysterious pale people from a land far to the north. In the cold war, the enemy that represented the greatest threat to your way of life was so far north that they were over the pole and on the other side, a bit of geography that's true for American and Soviet alike! (However, in reality the Soviets always imagined America as "in the West").

Northern wastelands being what they are, now and then some ancient civilization or other figures out such an inhospitable place would be perfect for preserving the sealed evil in a can.

It is interesting to note that while it is true that people living up north on a standard-shaped planet don't get all that much sun in the winter and tend to be a bit gloomy, people seem to forget that they also don't have a proper night in the summer (assuming an axial tilt). They also tend to forget that the temperature difference has less to do with being Northerly than it does with the distance from the equator. After all, the only reason we Earthlings consider North to be synonymous with cold is that the planet's inhabited continents extend northward to cold parts of the Northern Hemisphere and, on average, very little south of Tropic of Capricorn. The only iced-over landmass of the Southern Hemisphere, Antarctica, is isolated by distance and scarcely habitable.

Not to be confused with oop north, which is, confusingly, the same North from which the Trope Name originates, though it's not exactly a barrel of laughs over there, either (but at least it's not Luton).

The roots of this trope could also lie in the fact that most major religions originated in warm locations: the Abrahamic ones in Mesopotamia and the Levant (Judaism and Christianity) and the Arabian Peninsula (Islam); the Dharmic ones (chiefly Hinduism and Buddhism) in India; Taoism, Confucianism, and Chinese folk religion in mostly-temperate China; and Shintoism in temperate Japan. These were all locations where cold weather was associated with winter and its connotations of the "death" stage of the seasonal cycle rather than being the simple fact of life it becomes when actually living Up North.

On the other hand, people in those climates tend to portray very bad places — such as Hell — as hot. It is the people who live in the North who insist that Hell is cold.

santa claus is unrelated...usually. See also mysterious antarctica. Grim Up North is the frigid sister trope of the savage south.

The trope namer appears to be the justified ancients of mu mu song "It's Grim Up North", which contains a list of cities in the north of england.

