While distant planets in fiction are typically different from Earth in many ways (see for example planet of hats, genericist government, single-biome planet), they also exhibit astounding cultural similarities: aliens tend to speak english in the idiom of a 21st-century speaker of english, their written language, numerals and methods of time measurement are conveniently identical to Earth standards or can be easily converted. You might even spot European cars or vancouver landmarks. Women will have Latin-sounding names ending in -a, wear their hair long and their heels high. Expect to come across proper names imported from Earth.

These Inexplicable Cultural Ties are caused by the fact that most writers are human and can reasonably expect you, the viewer or reader, to be human as well. Hence, some cultural similarities might be considered acceptable breaks from reality (like a translation convention) or result from a limited budget. Others might strike you as avoidable mistakes by the creators of the fictional work.

This trope comes in vastly varying degrees. Sometimes it's just a tiny detail that catches the viewer's eye, maybe a building in the background you recognize from real life or a visibly branded over-the-counter prop. On the other side of the scale, the alien planet will exhibit so many implausible similarities with Earth that your willing suspension of disbelief is shattered almost instantly. Extreme cases lead to space romans. Also, the similarities might be hidden in plain sight, like a combination of social conventions that are inconspicuous precisely because they are so Earth-like but whose exact re-enactment on a distant planet is completely illogical. As this is an omnipresent trope for science fiction, you might have become desensitized to it. And don't expect the characters on screen to spot Inexplicable Cultural Ties for you - odds are they're crazy functional genre savvy. Instead, consult your fridge frequently.

It's difficult to avert this trope completely in live action settings for budget reasons alone, although good writing can help to pull it off. Actually, as the above quote from the original Star Trek pitch shows, use of this trope used to be a selling point to make live action science fiction feasible for the small screen and pull some aesops in a like reality unless noted setting. Since then, this trope has lost some credibility due to the rise of harder science fiction and better production values and techniques conspiring to change viewer's expectations. It is something of an undead horse trope, though. Of course, the whole trope is conveniently avoided in case of aliens steal cable or absent aliens.

Though animated adaptations and comic book adaptations have the potential to shift a hitherto live-action franchise towards visually more alien settings, they still need good writing and design to avoid this trope. Conversely, live-action adaptations of animated works or comic books are likely to introduce more Inexplicable Cultural Ties to a fictional world.

Cultural counterpart to the evolutionary human aliens and all planets are earth-like, which refers to planetary properties.

This being an omnipresent trope of science fiction, please only mention examples where it is played with, averted or employed in a notable way.

