A common decision that creators have when worldbuilding is if each planet is going to have a culture that spans the entire world, or if they have distinct ethnicities, cultures, and traditions.

This is the latter. Either the writer is attempting to subvert or soften the traditional planet of hats methodology, or they enjoy world building itself. Planets are unlikely to be as heterogeneous as modern humanity — most writers have trouble working that with humanity itself — but there will be more than one defining characteristic for each race. The goal is to make each race as interesting and deep as a three-dimensional character, instead of a flat template to apply to any character from that race.

This trope is most notable for its appearance in science fiction; however, it also appears in other speculative fiction. In a science fiction work with only humans, this trope applies when multiple cultures appear in any given area, such as a space station or a planet. In a fantasy story with fantastic races, this trope applies when there are different ethnicities or cultures within the races, such as more than one type of elf or more than one type of goblin. A given work may mix and match the tropes, giving planet of hats treatment to the villainous races, and Multicultural Alien Planet treatment to the heroic races. If a work has the same alien race on five planets, and each planet has a different ethnicity, then the creator is using both. Often helps contribute to an ungovernable galaxy.

Examples of this trope are species with a tendency to possess diverse and varied cultures. There may be cultural or societal divisions, and ambitious writers might even suggest different languages among members of the same species. However, given the tendency to skip alien languages altogether, some will simply invoke aliens of london and settle for giving alien species different accents or speech patterns. (Note: If the diversity is only in accents, the example belongs on aliens of london, not here.)

