This is a special kind of crossover trope in which the characters from Show A will enter the universe of Show B—both shows of which are "real" to us. In other words, neither is a show within a show. In addition to finding out that they're trapped in the universe of Show B, the characters of Show A discover that they themselves are the subject of a Show A in the universe of Show B. The characters from Show A are, in essence, simultaneously trapped in tv land and a refugee from tv land. This isn't welcome to the real world, since both universes are depicted as being equally "real".

A situation in which Show A is fictional in Show B and Show B is fictional in Show A isn't an example of this trope if they never share a continuity; if in A's continuity B is just fiction and vice versa. This could happen with two completely unrelated works that each incorporate real world elements that happen to include the other work.

This is a relatively common trope used in crossover fan fic.

strictly speaking, this kind of crossover should never logically be allowed to exist. At the very least, the particular episode of each series or work which references the other should be assumed to not exist within the other's universe. Otherwise, you would have a situation wherein it would be distinctly possible for the main characters to see the TV show of their entire reality within said reality, realize their entire existence was a lie, and freak out. And we wouldn't want that, now would we?

One possible justification would be if the two worlds are simply alternate universes and the "shows" in question are based on visions people have from the other world. In this case, expect the characters trying to establish what in this shows is correct and what is not. Unfortunately, the fiction identity postulate proves that all fiction is equally unreal. And anyone living in an alternate universe may be, by definition, fictional.

This is where recursive canon meets recursive reality. May create an accidental intercontinuity crossover.

See also celebrity paradox. comic books are real is a one-sided version, usually dealing with a show within a show instead of another real-life series. Compare faeries don't believe in humans either, where each side believes the other is only stories prior to meeting, but both have always been fact and that's what the stories are based on. Contrast stable time loop, which leads to a similar ontological paradox.

