On their wagon train to the stars, our intrepid heroes come across a planet with a single defining characteristic. Everybody is a robot, or a gangster, or a proud warrior race guy, or an over-the-top actor, or wearing a nice hat. To some degree, this is unavoidable; you only have so much screen time or page space to develop and explore a culture. This is especially true in episodic series where the heroes travel to a new planet each week and you have to both introduce a planet and tell a story all within a single episode.

Earth itself is sometimes portrayed as a Planet Of Hats. The defining human characteristic is often "pluck", "sheer cussedness", creativity, and sometimes even "diversity", though "bastardry" and "stupidity" are common in more misanthropic works. Sometimes it's stated that Hattery is the natural state and it's humans that are the aberrant ones, or rather that humanity's Hat is not having one.

Writers love to use the hat planet to represent controversial issues in society whenever they can. This way the show's characters can take a thinly disguised public stand on an issue that the network execs would otherwise consider too taboo to openly discuss. We can't have our heroes discussing euthanasia, but should they stumble across a Planet Of Hats where everyone who gets sick is put to death, then it's okay. Eventually the plots will run out with an entire race of identical people so one or more of the species will have their hat fall off, declaring my species doth protest too much. Alternately, the show may explore why klingon scientists get no respect. For maximum typing, the characters can also be physically uniform, as in people of hair color.

The Planet Of Hats may also be an unintended result of a character exaggeration type plot tumor applied to an entire race, when the audience had previously only seen a single representative who the writers now wish to market. For cases where a planetary hat is extrapolated retroactively from a single character, see planet of copyhats.

Just for comparison, Earth has seven continents, hosting just under two hundred states, with an estimated five thousand ethnicities, with even more thousands of different languages and their varied dialects. There is no reason to suspect that alien life forms would be any different, but in media they are nowhere near as diverse as one might expect.

Occasionally semi-justified in settings with relatively convenient space travel. Many nations agree to use a single language (usually English) when they must operate in a multinational group. It is also reasonable to expect planetary colonists to be culturally and linguistically uniform.

Compare: gang of hats. Contrast: multicultural alien planet. See also rubber-forehead aliens, intelligent gerbil, scary dogmatic aliens. May result because apathy killed the cat. If the planet's hat is being evil, it's an example of always chaotic evil. serious business is what happens when the show's setting gets a hat. This trope in itself is a good example of sci-fi writers have no sense of scale. See single-biome planet when the planet is unnaturally uniform physically. one-product planet is a subtrope, but focuses on economics rather than culture.

Has nothing to do with a certain war-themed hat simulator. For the webcomic of the same name, see here.