If you thought the north was bad, you haven't seen the south. Down there, everyone is crude, their language indecipherable and their mannerisms are barbaric. The land is an inhospitable jungle full of wild beasts, barren desert, or nasty swamps full of crocodiles (sometimes it has all of the above). Also, don't go swimming: there are sharks, or worse.

The Savage South is when a southern area is seen as more barbaric than its northern counterpart. This shows up frequently in westerns, fantasy settings, horror films, and many other works and takes many forms. In milder versions, the area's just unpleasant with rude, poorly groomed people. At worst, the people are hostile to any outsiders and the land itself is a nightmare realm just waiting to kill unlucky travelers.

A Supertrope of the deep south, south of the border, darkest africa, and land down under, sister trope to grim up north. If the South is looking decayed, misty and/or possibly undead, then it's southern gothic instead.

Historically, until recent times, areas near the equator were seen by many Europeans and Americans as not only unpleasantly hot but also arid or sopping wet and full of savage tribes and dangerous large animals like panthers and lions. If the heat, tribalism or animals didn't kill you, the diseases borne by biting flies or mosquitoes or food poisoning would. Modern advances in dealing with disease and wild animals have resulted in a more friendly outlook on these places as the risks are more easily managed.

The field equipment of any self-respecting European or American in places beyond the tropics would include the venerable pith helmet - before world war ii, plenty of real life people were fully convinced the head of a White guy would boil in the midday sun without, while the natives were genetically adapted to it. It had a more mundane explanation: while the people who had grown in hot climates would know better and stop all physical activity from around 11 AM to 6 PM, Northerners would insist on their usual work schedule from their home country, with most active hours when the heat is worst.

No "real life" examples unless very specific, please. For example, quoting an American newspaper saying that Mexico is barbaric is fine (despite the unfortunate implications), but saying "how America views Mexico" is not enough.

 Cannibal  There are countless horror films that take place in the Southern USA. Here is a sample list (see also   Invoked in  In Faulkner's  Until fairly recently, Africa south of the Sahara was often called "Dark Africa" in many books and films because it was largely an unknown, "savage" land.

 Averted in most French works: The south of France is often depicted as being far friendlier and warmer than the north. Played straight in that most clandestine immigration comes from the South (that is, North Africa), so depictions of the area are portrayed roughly the same as Mexican Favelas.

  In  The southern lands in  In     The   In   Different parts of Titan, the  The Kocari Wilds in   Two of the southern-most regions in  Stranglethorn Vale zone in  The entire continent of Kunark in  As   Somewhat justified as the climates close the Equator provide the life the best environment to thrive. Including also germs, diseases, pests, predators, parasites and other nasty creatures. Most snakes, insects and amphibians, for example, find their natural habitat between the Tropics and Equator. Likewise, the sister trope  According to 