If your characters have entered a parallel universe that's just a few steps removed from our own, the fastest way to establish it is by sticking a whopping great Zeppelin airship in the sky.

In our world, zeppelins actually seemed to be doing pretty well up until may 6, 1937. People adored them, they were seen as extremely glamorous and futuristic. The world-famous LZ-127 Graf Zeppelin had accomplished global circumnavigations, arctic explorations, and aviation feats that people had only dreamed of. No passengers had ever been injured or killed on a Zeppelin flight since they were invented over thirty years prior, which put them leagues ahead of the era's much smaller and frailer airplanes. Although non-Zeppelin airships had suffered a few highly-publicized crashes, the Zeppelins themselves seemed immune. But in 1937, at the zenith of the Zeppelins' development, the flagship luxury liner Hindenburg burst into flames for no apparent reason, the first major catastrophe caught on film. This Hydrogen fire, which killed roughly a third of the passengers and crew on board, created a global panic. No commercial Zeppelin would fly again until 1999, though relatively tiny nonrigid "blimps" had continued to operate in relative stagnation.

More recently, airships are making a comeback for niches such as pleasure cruising, humanitarian aid, replacing helicopter for cargo hauling, law enforcement, military surveillance, photography, and scientific research. This resurgence has been enabled by new technologies and designs that mitigate the airships' disadvantages and greatly enhance their lift, safety and speed - by hybridizing them with airplanes and tiltrotors.

It is important to note that the presence of airships doesn't imply that the technology of the alternate universe is inferior. Just like with biological evolution, Zeppelins are not "more" or "less" evolved technology, what's used is whatever is the best available fit for the niche. It could just as well be that Zeppelins in the alternate history were better able to suit the situation than airplanes were, say if there was a massive resource shortage that demanded efficiency and payload over speed, or some other economic factor.

Zeppelins aren't just the fastest way to indicate that you've found yourself in an alternate universe setting, they're quite often a striking symbol of dystopia. Like spy satellites, Zeppelins can be used to survey the populace, only hundreds of times cheaper and more effectively, with next to unlimited endurance. They are also much more visible than a satellite, obviously, often leading to their use as a propaganda machine, acting like big brother's evil Goodyear Blimp.

Strictly speaking, the name 'zeppelin' strictly refers only to airships with a rigid external frame, a propulsion and steering mechanism, and no anxiety that users will be put off by the name. Dirigibles and blimps still qualify for the trope. Alternate universe plane-spotters, take note.

So by filling up Earth 2 with bulbous aircraft rather than hovercars or spaceships, you are suggesting a world that is of a similar time period to our own, but just happened to follow a different technological route. It also helps that they have lots of diesel punk and steam punk cred and are sufficiently olde-worlde to be used in fantasy stories too. they are also cool.

Alternatively, the Zeppelins are just there to show the audience that the movie is set in another world, even if nobody from our world crosses over into it.

Alternatively, you could make the whole sky different. This works, too.

The transportation of choice for sky pirates everywhere. Also see airborne aircraft carrier, cool airship, and floating continent. Somewhat related to space whale.

