An Accidental Pornomancer is a character who seems unable to avoid sex, particularly in situations where most sane people would find it awkward, non-consensual, squickish, immoral or impractical.

This trope is usually what you get if you want the benefits of the nice guy with none of the implications of the pornomancer. Sex is something that just happens to the Accidental Pornomancer, even if they're apathetic or don't want it, and their own desires are completely inconsequential. Moral repercussions are either glossed over, or made to seem wrong, but still awesome. The Accidental Pornomancer is thus free from any responsibility, consequences, guilt or fault for what happened, even if they enjoy it.

In theory, it's the perfect escapist fantasy: the hero isn't "perverted" because this sexual encounter isn't something they, or "normal" people, would want. They aren't womanizing or slutting, because they couldn't say no, or the sex was really weird. Thus, there's plenty of power fantasy, but your hero can still be an audience surrogate. Further, this trope usually (but not always) averts idealized sex; when the sex is really awkward or weird, you can still have them feel insecure, and thus seem innocent.

because of gender stereotypes, the Accidental Pornomancer is either always male or the sexual aggressors are always female. If you swap genders, the same situation invites unfortunate implications and double standards, perhaps unless the story was intended for women, but good luck with that. While the guy will be admired or seen as "lucky", the rare female version of this trope is usually an innocent being victimized or a ditzy, "easy" slut.

Also, while the setup for this trope is the same as an unwanted harem, where it differs is that in the harem genre, the hero is usually chaste until the end. This hero sees action at some point during the story, and usually doesn't have to put in any work.

As such, this trope is prevalent in a lot of pornography, hentai, ecchi, and h-games.

For more information on the subject, check out the analysis page.

Subtrope to chick magnet (and in some cases, clueless chick magnet specifically) and really gets around. Sometimes overlaps with sister trope, so beautiful, it's a curse. In-universe, this is often confused for playing hard to get, but the difference is that the Accidental Pornomancer actually doesn't seek any attention.

Contrast celibate/chaste hero, which this subverts.

