The homosexual version (and logical conclusion) of i'm a man, i can't help it, all men are perverts, and a man is always eager. If all men constantly want sex, then men attracted to other men obviously must be constantly having sex.

Alan is gay. Alan loves Bob. Bob may or may not be gay (or bi) and may or may not eventually partner with Alan; the story needs more time to bring that out one way or the other.

Alan, meanwhile, happens across a good-looking guy; blushes; and, within the space of a night, is picking up his clothes from the guy's floor. He may then go on to do as much with half a dozen more guys before the story gets around to answering whether or not he can hook up with Bob.

If this were a heterosexual relationship that we're talking about, it would clearly say something about the character of Alan as an individual (can't keep his pants up, even while waiting for his "love" to accept him...let's not even talk about how this would look if alan were alice instead).

There are certainly celibate characters who have heterosexual urges that they choose to control. Gay characters who choose to be celibate for any significant length of time are almost unheard of. If they're celibate, it's because they can't find a mate, or because they are forced into an abnormal situation.

This trope has some interesting historical basis, in that many gay and lesbian writers post-Stonewall (and a few queer theory writers more recently) advocated emphasizing difference from heterosexual and normative life. This difference included denigrating marriage and monogamy, thus strengthening the link between homosexuality and promiscuity in the eyes of those who viewed all homosexuals as sick sexual deviants.

How this trope is treated in the eye of the writer (or the reader for that matter) will depend on how they view sexuality itself, whether they believe that frequent sex when detached from romantic relationships is a matter of morality, and what they believe normative sexuality should be.

