The tendency for all men within a work of fiction to think primarily with their penises. As such they will be constantly trying to peek up girls' skirts or into the girl's locker room, and will go out of their way (often to absurd lengths) to either catch a glimpse of something naughty or gain a minuscule chance of finally doing the deed. Whenever they actually get a peek at women's breasts, they lose all brain function. This trope is often used as an excuse to hand male characters the idiot ball. Men will lose all reason, become catatonic, get massive nosebleeds, etc. just because a woman is in a room. If an man shows any amount of interest in a woman, it's assumed to be sexual. This trope is so prevalent that if a male character is not being lecherous around women, he is often assumed to be either gay or a eunuch.

A harmful double standard, since very rarely are women portrayed as behaving or even thinking this way (for aversions, see all women are lustful). It reinforces the notion that male sexuality is "dirty" and worthy of shame, while female sexuality is depicted as respectful, wholesome and "pure", if it's depicted at all. The darker, more passive-aggressive take on the dogged nice guy may claim to avert this trope to show that he's "not like other guys."

Compare i'm a man, i can't help it (focuses more specifically on the idea that a man can't function without sex instead of more universal perversion), a man is always eager (which purports that "real men" never say no to sex when presented with the opportunity, no matter the circumstances), all gays are promiscuous (what happens when there aren't any women involved to say no), nerds are virgins (just because you're a pervert doesn't mean you get laid). May lead to claims that a man is not a virgin. all men are rapists is the darker and edgier version of this that usually shows up in crapsack worlds and old-fashioned romance novels. double standard: rape, female on male results partly from believing this trope is true (a woman can't rape a man because men always want to have sex and would never turn it down).

Compare and contrast all women are lustful, the now-seldom-seen distaff counterpart. Much more common in modern works is all women are prudes which is often paired with this trope and used to support that women are wiser than men. Sometimes paired with all women are vain. Attempts at invoking this trope may fall under i have boobs, you must obey!. This trope also is used to justify all women are doms all men are subs as only a man could honestly enjoy pain being perverted as he is (or perhaps he just doesn't care how much pain he has to endure as long as he has a chance to get some sex out of it).

