The distaff counterpart of all men are perverts: Women will do anything for sex, and men are the cerebral ones.

This is a cyclic trope, having been popular historically, especially in ancient Greece. Back then, this trope actually replaced all men are perverts: it was assumed that women were too sex-crazed to say no to sex, while men were supposed to hold back for the sake of propriety; being too sexual with women was an insult to a man's virility. Although mostly a forgotten trope and/or discredited trope today, this trope made a comeback in the early eighties in which beautiful sexually adventurous women are the ones who pick up guys and initiate sexual encounters.

Sometimes, a good bad girl doesn't care about the social stigma with putting out, and her whoring is portrayed positively and a rite of passage or personal growth. That is not this trope. This trope would shrug its shoulders and say: Well, she's a woman, what do you expect, of course she's trying to get her baby cannon stuffed for all she can! And if the guy isn't willing? well, that's just too bad. no guy wants to be chased, but what are you going to do? my girl is a slut, and my fish are wet.

In order for this trope to apply to a modern work, women have to be depicted as man-chasers by default. Not just one in particular; that's simply really gets around (for "generic" promiscuity) or a man-eater (when the woman picks up and then discards lovers like tissue paper). Women in general would say i am a woman, i can't help it! It has to be socially expected from women that they'll do anything for the next ride on the trouser rocket. Not because it's in a world where men and women happily engage in the hanky-panky and the nasty together. A world where women are the ones thinking with their crotches, and men are the ones thinking with their brains.

Contrast all women are prudes and compare all men are perverts. And everybody has lots of sex is when both genders more or less equally go for casual sex.

In classic works that personify the seven deadly sins (including Marlowe's Doctor Faustus), Lust is usually the one cast as a woman.

Please don't post generic aversions - save for the few fictional works which make a point in analyzing the veracity of common gender stereotypes.

