The idea that men are always hungry for sex and would never willingly turn it down for any reason. If a man has even the tiniest chance to get sex as a reward for performing some task, then it is always worth it, no matter how difficult or costly the task may be, nor how disastrous the consequences. It doesn't matter if he's a virgin or if he already has sex multiple times a day, he'd forever be kicking himself for passing up a chance to do it just one more time.

To take one common example in fiction, on the rare occasion that a man is a virgin, he will always want to initiate sexual activity with his significant other. He's never nervous or apprehensive about how the first time will go, just excited about the fact that he'll actually be having sex. And he'll never, ever, be as satisfied with the state of his (non-existent) sex life as his girlfriend is.

This is a form of double standard related to all men are perverts and all women are prudes. As for how much bearing on reality this trope has, well... On one hand, no, of course being male doesn't make one want sex literally every waking minute. Research does show, however, that the vast majority of somewhat younger men feel the need for sexual relief nearly every day, while the same generally doesn't seem to apply to women. But no, the desire is not so powerful that one simply can't resist it. Though it must be noted that social experiments indicate that as many as around 75% of men will say "yes" to any random, somewhat attractive woman offering them sex. Of course, this hardly suggests that 75% of men would be incapable of saying no to sex if they had they opportunity. And of course, being a bit nervous about the whole thing is perfectly normal. But you can't expect fiction to live up to reality, oh no.

The flip-side of this particular trope is that, since every man is a slave to his own libido, every woman is borderline celibate. It is disgusting, unnatural, and outrageous for any woman to put up with, let alone enjoy, let alone want sex, and if one does show interest you should call a doctor and/or priest immediately.

There are certain situations in which this trope will always appear:

 A  An episode about how a girl's virginity is precious in some way, and she has every opportunity to turn down sex from her pushy boyfriend. Spoiler alert: the girl won't listen, and she'll either feel like a slut after sex, or she'll feel violated, and swear to her friends that she'll never have sex again. Hopefully someone talks her out of it.

Sometimes, in a show aimed at a younger audience, sex would be inappropriate and/or can't be shown. Kissing will be used instead.

If a male character is shown not jumping at the chance to have sex with someone (female), he will be gay. Or mistaken for gay - the latter scenario can be truth in television. This is also one if not the defining factor of double standard: rape, female on male; the idea that a man cannot be raped because he unable to "not want" or "refuse" sex.

If an eager woman wants to have sex with an unwilling man (an inversion of this trope), it's all women are lustful.

This is a highly dangerous trope that is too often used as an excuse for rape in Real Life - it is a horrible experience to go through, and all too often the victims are shamed into silence by their attackers. If this is you, you need not be afraid. There are people who can and will help you. and now you know.

