Simply put, this character is outright attracted to fat people on an aesthetic level. Often treated as strictly as fetishists with inclinations toward feederism, if not outright as an acceptable target. In real life, some prefer the term "Fat Admirer."

Both labels are often applied to anyone who dates a heavy person but isn't overweight themselves, regardless of any other qualities they like in the person or if they simply find that person attractive with no particular fetish.

In a way, this is truth in television, as many ancient and modern cultures prefer hefty, moderately-overweight women to skinny ones. The pop-culture obsession with thin women is actually relatively new.

Related to big beautiful woman, big beautiful man and fat and proud.

  In one of the   A one-shot character from  Katou Hayabusa is well-known for all of his mangas featuring a plump lady and/or a lover of such. This seems to be the whole point of  Tagami, the male lead from the shoujo manga  In  Akari from    Jimbo from   Booger from  Andy Garcia's lead in  The titular character in  The Prime Minister (Hugh Grant) character in  Stephen in  Miles in  The unfeasibly influential and rich media tycoon, Sean Cooley of  Moto Moto in  In  Adrian from  One of the ladies from  Professor Peach of  Kurd from  Huber in the West German film   In  "Fat Fred," an " At least implied of   In the  When  Jake Stonebender of  One of the German soldiers in  Kurik from  Sookaiya "Soo" Venatosh, a female mercenary in  This is the curse of Rob, the love interest in Ricki Lake's telemovie  In the  In  In  In   In  On  Hal of   There is an episode of  Brian May and, by extension, the viewpoint character of the   Also the Mika song, "Big Girl (You are Beautiful)".

 The narrator of Louis Prima's   Appears in the second verse to "Beer Gut" by  During the Arthur Godfrey version of the "Too Fat Polka" one of the chorus members sang "I sure want her, you can't have her, she's just right for me!"

  A  One sidequest in  In one quest in  In  Being a    In  Cherrywell, the lesbian cheerleader from  Riley from  Most of the women  In her "Top Ten Disturbing Christmas Songs",  A surprisingly large proportion of the users on  Pam from    In  In  In the 