Maybe it's that they're so cute when they're helpless. Maybe it's that we really want to feel loved and protected when we're vulnerable. First aid is intimate. You have to lean in to pat a cut eyebrow with dettol-soaked cotton wool gently. Narrowly escaping a life-threatening situation gives the scene extra zing.

Whatever the case, patients can and do fall in love with those who give them medical care, and vice versa.

When the care-giver is a professional, such as a nurse or doctor, it would be considered extremely unprofessional for a doctor or nurse to act on those feelings. Doctors are advised against getting infatuated with their patients or to clearly rebuff the patients' advances, and having sex (or any sort of overt romantic liaison for that matter) with a current patient or any of their family member is considered a punishable breach of medical ethics (there is a line in the hippocratic oath specifically forbidding that) to prevent the doctor from abusing his or her position of authority to coerce sex from patients. But in fiction, this will usually be portrayed as sweet and romantic.

When the care is given by an amateur, there is an added element of romance because the medical treatment is entirely voluntary. This isn't their job, it's a genuine expression of caring for the well-being of another person. Typically, the "civilian" version comes in two flavors:

 Previously aloof tough character gets injured, lets the love interest treat their injuries, and reveals a newfound trust and intimacy. This might or might not involve the tough person making that hissing sound when the love interest touches their injured face, but not quite pulling away...

 The love interest gets injured, and the tough character treats them and suddenly reveals a tender side.

The after-action patchup often has touches of this, but since it's only one scene does not often have the full blown effect.

Named for the famous nurse Florence Nightingale, although she herself never fell victim to this. Psychologists just couldn't think of a better doctor or nurse, thus proving once and for all that tropers aren't the only ones who choose trope namers that aren't examples of the trope.

See also the woobie and bandage babe, which is what the patient may be to the audience and to the nurse. Also compare loser gets the girl. If the character giving the first aid is not actually good at it, it's nurse with good intentions. Possibly contrast stockholm syndrome and lima syndrome.

Maybe, it's because weakness turns her on.

