This is a sex worker (prostitute, stripper, porn actress, or any other similar sex-industry occupation) who is a good person and might become a love interest for a main character. Underneath the sex kitten exterior there's actually a sweet, innocent flower that needs nurturing. If she doesn't get killed off by an angry pimp, you can typically expect her past to either be quickly forgotten or be mentioned/alluded to constantly.

This is particularly true if the character in question is in the "street-walker" category - they are generally the most poor and desperate, have gone through the most embittering experiences, and frequently have debilitating drug addictions that wreak havoc on their looks and their personalities. Not that you can tell, of course, as Hollywood hookers tend to be gorgeous and never suffer from meth bugs or malnutrition.

This trope is older than feudalism, dating all the way back to Aspasia with Pericles.

Contrast with the gold digger; compare with The high-class call girl and ethical slut. In the wild west, this character is properly called a "Soiled Dove". If she's got a kid, that child will be a son of a whore. If Asian, she may also be an asian hooker stereotype.

This trope is only about prostitutes and other professional sex workers. For people who have casual sex for the pleasure of it rather than for money, see instead good bad girl and ethical slut. However, the tropes can overlap when it comes to the most benevolent forms of sex work. Both are liable to be against any form of sex work that is exploitative and/or emotionally damaging, but might consider some forms relatively safe and thus approve of them.

Sometimes these women have suffered from the horrors of prostitution, and sometimes even women violently forced into prostitution can fit into this trope. In that case, you might have on your hands a broken bird, who needs to be reminded of true kindness and gentility to bring out her golden heart under her bitter exterior.

This is a character type that shows up in a lot of Christian fiction. Can be done extremely well (a la Francine Rivers) or not.

Some may take pity on a protagonist and offer him or her a place in this bed of rose's.

