There are beings who stalk the night, searching for a victim, a victim that could very easily be you. And when they find you, they won't eat you or tear you to shreds. Oh no, plenty of other monsters and demons have cornered the market on that. No, they will do something far more sinister. They will appear to you as a breathtakingly beautiful woman or handsome man.

And then they will have sex with you.

Not terrifying enough for you?

How about if sex was also their way of sucking out your soul/lifeforce, which will leave your body a dry husk, a literal empty shell?

Nowadays, these are generally referred to as incubus (always male) and succubus (always female). In actual folklore, these demons were not vampiric, had no need to feed, and were not particularly attractive, being sexual predators. The horrifying sensation of sleep paralysis, where you wake up and are unable to move, was known as incubus as late as Victorian times. (Not to be confused with the band of the same name. Or the esperanto language horror movie.)

However, modern fiction writers don't want to use them like that, so typically, the baseline rules are:

 They have a supernatural sense of seduction.

 They must feed through sexual contact.

 They have to be incredibly attractive ( Usually of the Incubi and Succubi are almost always treated as a species or type of demons. Some stories actually make them a breed of vampires, since they function similarly (vampires feed on blood for sustenance, incubi/succubi feed on sex), but they are almost always evil. And you do not want to run in to them. No matter how hot they are and how lonely you are.

In some legends, satan Himself changed shape to be both incubus and succubus. See, Old Scratch wants kids but can't produce human seed, so he becomes a succubus, receives some sperm from a guy, turns into an incubus, and passes it on to a woman. How this transmits satanic genes is a question not addressed as the theory was invented before mendel's time, never mind Rosalind Franklin's.

The offspring of said demons and a human are either demonic infiltrators of humanity or basically mortals with mysterious powers. The legendary merlin is sometimes said to be the offspring of an incubus and a nun. Incidentally, the above mythology went a long way to explaining away pregnant nuns in the Middle Ages without destroying their virtues. better to be seen as the victims of demonic rape than participants in consensual sex, one might suppose. (Admittedly, there were periods when people took a very dim view of violating vows of celibacy, if the vower weren't powerful or well-connected.) Several cases of actual rape in politically tricky circumstances also appeared to have been dealt with this way. Even more importantly, it explained why Merlin could use magic (which was  contrary to God's order), but still be one of the good guys.

The modern viewpoint, with its much more lenient view of sexually liberated women, tend to feature a far greater number of subversions on the classic interpretation than straight examples: most, especially in anime or Japanese games, tend to be a cute monster girl/reluctant monster.

Compare the literal out with a bang and the less direct death by sex. See also vagina dentata. For when the main man himself takes on a more, er, feminine role, check out hot as hell. If you're looking for characters with horny heads...on their shoulders, you want horned humanoids.

