The logical extremity of a man is not a virgin, and the masculine equivalent of the the unfair sex. This trope features a man caught in a sexually compromising situation. If he is unmarried, not seeing anyone, or involved with a partner who, at the moment, is either unwilling or unable to grant him sexual satisfaction, he can provide the following excuse:

The "extended period" can be anything from a few years to a few days. Bonus points to anyone who compares celibacy of any duration to taking vows at a monastery. Interestingly, this trope persists even if other characters in the main cast can display the ability to keep their pants zipped. Apparently some have higher libidos than others. Naturally, they never just schedule a date with rosie palms. All in all, it's usually just a really bad excuse. but some men truly believe that they can't handle themselves better than that and as a result they can't.

Note that uses of this trope almost always focus on the physical gratification of sex. Our philandering boy just wants the physical sensation and release; other relationship issues that might lead to cheating (such as a lack of intimacy; the emotional distance created in a relationship where sex existed but is now gone; the idea that a man might actually want the emotional connection of making love, and so on) are rarely considered. Obviously a double standard at work, although a sexually neglected man, like a sexually neglected woman, will often find himself on the "good" side of the good adultery, bad adultery divide.

Very much newer than they think. In ancient times (Rome, Greece, etc.) being lecherous was considered a distinctively female characteristic; all women are lustful in those settings. For a man to be described as a slave to his urges was a major insult to his masculinity.

Women who want to take advantage of this trope can either attempt a lysistrata gambit or say "i have boobs, you must obey!". See also all men are perverts, everybody has lots of sex, sex is good. Contrast seduction-proof marriage, when a character refuses another's advances on grounds of a committed relationship.

Has many unfortunate implications: all men are perverts; a man is always eager; a man is not a virgin; a woman is required to provide a man with sex because she is his; if a woman is cheated on or raped, it's her fault.

