like, ohmigod, you like just woke up and like, you're a  That's not cool! You lost mister happy and you've got, like, boobs! Giant, feminine, almost alien fleshbags. big, luscious, soft, bouncyOoo, yeah

Almost every time a male—and it is always a male—gets trapped in some kind of gender bender situation, the first thing the man turned woman does is check out the new equipment. In front of a mirror, if one is available. Often a form of fanservice.



The character will engage in the following sequence of actions:

 Shocked disbelief.

 Pulling open the collar of the shirt to stare down at the new breasts.

 Pulling open the pants and/or groping to verify that yes, indeed, s/he's all woman.

 Grabbing the breasts for final confirmation—likely for somewhat longer than strictly required to verify they are real, which leads to squeezing...and perhaps more squeezing...and maybe even  Shocked realization s/he was just feeling him/herself up. (optional) Or alternately, being interrupted by an appalled bystander, usually female.

This may be related to the famous five stages of grief: Denial, Anger, Bargaining, Depression and Acceptance. But with a greater focus on boobies.

Occasionally shortened to the simple:

 Realizes that he's a girl.

 Oh no!

 Checks down top.

 Oh yeah!

Females-turned-male will almost never do the equivalent with their new equipment. That's partly because it's a lot more risque, and partly because male self-pleasuring isn't cool. Or maybe it's because all women are prudes and thus disgust is far more expected, while on the other hand males-turned-female will engage in this trope even if they are horrified by the transformation to show that all men are perverts. The less prudish females may exploit their new ability to pee standing up, though, but that's still the most the risky and sexual thing they will usually do.

Compare showing off the new body which is a completely different situation that results in similar behavior; sweet on polly oliver, where a guy finds another "guy" attractive, with similar squick reactions pre reveal; and breaking in old habits, where new hands are "tested out".

A rare G-rated version may occur if the male-turned-female character intentionally experiments with stereotypically female behavior (see the third law of gender bending). This might be a humorous subversion (playing dress up instead of playing with yourself) or a form of g-rated masturbation when the trope can't or shouldn't be demonstrated explicitly.

trope namer is a shania twain song, which has nothing at all to do with this trope.

