Older women with a taste of the younger kind (no, not that young - well, not usually...).

Mrs. Robinson is usually much older than her lover, and her lover may or may not be willing. Even if the younger party is unwilling, not all people are sympathetic to their plight. In some cases, the boy is just some unlucky everydude, feeling isolated and looking for love. In more comedic situations, a casanova wannabe or chick magnet may attract the attention of a much, much older woman - which he desperately does not want!

With the genders reversed, you almost always end up with a dirty old man on one side and an innocent girl on the other. Since Mrs. Robinson is sometimes portrayed sympathetically, this may be an example of a double standard.

Do note that whereas the absurdly youthful mother retains enough of her youthful beauty and vibrancy to be often mistaken for a girl of her children's generations, the Mrs. Robinson is a woman clearly and visibly in the twilight of her girlhood glory, making her need for validation even more sympathetic to the audience.

Unlike a may-december romance, it's not the actual age which is problematic, but rather the apparent age that causes so much squick.

This is an evolving trope because society is gradually becoming more accepting of the sex appeal of women aged 30+. Some now refer to older women who still have active sex lives as "the cougar" and what they are interested in as "cougar sex." This also led up to the coining of the term "MILF" - a subversion in which people who like older women actively wish to be seduced by them. Sometimes they are the ones themselves who seduce older women. If every younger character around her finds themselves tempted to do this, she might be a stacy's mom. There are also the "pumas" who are in their late 20s to mid 30s who sleep with younger men.

Compare to hot for student.

fille fatale and likes older women are inversions. Contrast dirty old woman, who's even older and played for laughs.

Dee, dee-dee-dee dee dee, dee-dee dee dee, dee-dee dee...