One thing that makes life "interesting" for us humans is that many societies (and Anglophone culture in particular, as very distinct from Francophone) contain a fundamental tension when it comes to sex:

 We desire to be polyamorous, having access to multiple attractive sexual partners.

 We desire that our sexual partners, especially our long-term partners, be monogamous and not have any sexual partners other than ourselves.

This applies to both sexes. Both men and women fall in love, are tempted to cheat on their partners, and feel jealousy when they suspect their partners are cheating on them. If you know that someone has had sex with many different people, this makes them attractive for a one-night-stand, because it suggests that it will be easy to get them into bed and that they will probably be good in it, but it makes them poor prospects for a long-term relationship; they didn't "settle down" with anyone else, so they probably won't settle down with you. Conversely, someone who has carefully guarded their "innocence" is more likely to remain faithful once in a relationship, but they aren't going to settle for anything less than True Love, either. Again, this, too, applies to both sexes. Both men and women tend to categorize potential mates along these lines, according to what is often referred to as the "virgin/whore dichotomy". In other words, in spite of its other benefits, sleeping around will tend to make it harder to find a steady, long-term relationship.

Except in fiction. Some writers generally want to have characters that have sex, and a lot of it, with many different people. Sexual jealousy, and the desire not to provoke it in others, provides a reason for characters not to have sex, so it tends to be one of those things that get swept under the rug. In these stories, it's often the case that a man falls in love with a woman as a long-term partner specifically because she is promiscuous, and even encourages her to sleep with other men after they are married. These stories take the my girl is not a slut trope, turn it upside down, throw it out the window, stomp on it, set it on fire, and then bury it at the bottom of the ocean. Their girl is a slut, and they prefer it that way.

This can sometimes be truth in television. Swingers are people in committed relationships that have sex with other people that are also in the swinging lifestyle. In an open relationship, the partners are permitted to have sex outside of the relationship with whomever they wish, though it is usually understood to be "just sex." polyamory takes this a step farther, with multiple romantic relationships allowed, as long as consideration is given to the feelings of all involved. And there are various other reasons why a partner's infidelity, or the potential for infidelity, might make a man more interested in having sex with her. the other wiki has an article on the subject.

Please limit examples to mainstream fiction. There's no point in mentioning any of the millions of "hot wife" stories that can be found on erotic fiction sites.

Important Note: This trope applies if the girl is lauded by her man when she flirts with other men. a girl flirting with other women all the time, even going all the way, only applies if said girl also enjoys sleeping with men other than her boyfriend and he doesn't see anything wrong with that. If the girl only sleeps with other women but no man other than her boyfriend, it's not this trope.

Contrast, obviously enough, my girl is not a slut, and, not so obviously, all women are lustful. Compare polyamory, be a whore to get your man, good bad girl.

