Very simply, this is when a priest is depicted as or accused of being a paedophile or child molester — in short, a holy man with an entirely unholy interest in children.

Given the implicit trust associated with the profession, this is typically portrayed as the ultimate betrayal of innocence and a moral event horizon for everyone involved. Due to the cultural impact of the late twentieth-early twenty-first century child molestation scandals in the Catholic Church, Catholic priests are by far the most likely to be involved in a molestation accusation in modern media, although other religions are not immune. Of course, in real life paedophiles are much more likely to be a a teacher, carer, babysitter, or family friend, or even a random person online than a priest, simply because - just like murderers - paedophiles exist in all professions and at all levels of society. Hell, they can even be a children's TV Presenter and the studio may have covered it up.

Depending on the tone of the work and whether it regards the church as inherently good or evil, the initial accusation may be treated as the aberration of a single sick individual, or may lead to the uncovering of a corrupt or actively malevolent church hierarchy. Taken to the extreme, the church is nothing more than a wretched hive of child abusers using their religion as a shield. By contrast, in a comedic work, the trope may be played for laughs as a stock joke without exploring the unfortunate implications.

The accused need not even be guilty; the simple accusation of pedophilia/molestation is usually enough to set off a pædo hunt, which a genre savvy villain may take full advantage of as a red herring to cover up or distract from their crimes. Another way this trope can be used on a non-villainous character is that he has joined the church not only to get an excuse to remain a bachelor, but also as a way to fight against his urges and remain chaste.

See also dirty old monk, corrupt church, religion of evil, sinister minister, pædo hunt, rape as drama.

