

A character (male or female) possesses in-universe extraordinary prowess in both scoring and then giving physical sexual pleasure to his/her partner(s). A soft caress on the cheek from such a person can leave the subject a flustered bundle of sexual excitement, a body massage under their hands would be a heavenly experience, while the luckier ones who get to bed this character would most probably be in for the most intensely multi-orgasmic night they've ever had in their lives.

The reasons behind said prowess varies. Sometimes it's simply due to knowing "how to touch them right", sometimes it's through special sex techniques, sometimes it's by knowing how to make the best out of a larger than average tool, sometimes it's stamina and sometimes it might be actual magic. The power perversion potential for this ability should be very obvious, assuming that it isn't itself a result of power perversion potential. This an almost mandatory part of a horny devil's inventory of abilities. Many pornographic works tend to depict their male characters as this; for live-action ones, this would be an informed ability, given that they don't actually do anything "special" on-screen.

Note: This trope is neither tied to a specific gender nor tied to a specific sexual orientation. Also, being able to do one or two "tricks" to get one's partner hit the O-zone does not qualify for this trope. The character is supposed to be (hailed as) a veritable expert in carnal delights, not a "one-trick pony".

memetic sex god is the memetic mutation counterpart of this trope, where the fandom perceives the character as being this, regardless of evidence for or against - if said evidence even exists. May serve as a justification for the attractiveness behind the chick magnet/hello, nurse!, the pornomancer, or the kavorka man.

, though due to their particular domain, they often are Sex Gods by necessity.

Compare with the casanova, who has high prowess/skill in seduction rather than sexual pleasure; of course, being a consistently successful the casanova would usually require being a Sex God, too.

      Many, if not all,   In  Chevy Chase's character in  Jim Carrey's character in  Spoofed, along with  In  Bond. James Bond.

 Dr. Frank N. Furter of  In   In the   The female protagonist of the  Any courtesan in  As a  The main character and his mistress in Trevanian's   In  In  Daemon Sadi in the   Thomas of  An episode of  Joey from   The inventor of the " The cryptically named "The Immortal" from  In the final episode of  Captain   In an episode of the 1st season of  On  Most, if not all,  Both the main protagonist and her partner are this in " In the  In   El Chupacabra in    Skwisgaar Skwigelf of   Of all the characters, 