A character with this state of mind believes that sex is evil, but can't escape their own sexuality. Operating under ethical guidelines completely opposite to those of an ethical slut, the character who employs this trope is likely to care little, if at all, for their sexual partners, as they consider them "dirty" and might resent them or worse for "leading him into temptation."

The character isn't necessarily a rapist; it's enough for them to be a jerkass about their sexuality under the presumption that sex is evil, "unmarried non-virgins are whores," or similar. They are likely to eventually take it out on their partner(s), themselves, or both.

If they do commit sexual harassment or worse, they might be obliviously evil about it. They are likely to show their consideration by choosing victims who are already defiled forever, so that some extra abuse won't make any difference... to them, that is.

In a setting where sex is evil, this character will exemplify the evils of sexuality. If they make a heel-face turn and become good, they are likely to forgive their victims for "tempting" them. In a setting where sex is not evil, the character is likely to be contrasted with a chivalrous pervert, good bad girl, or fully operational ethical slut.

A character with this mindset is likely to think that at least some men are incapable of controlling their sexual urges, so women should expect them to commit sexual harassment or worse and be crazy-prepared in various ways. Such as second-guess what these men might find attractive and then try her best to not look attractive, lest these men might get their urges. Of course, since each individual man has his individual preferences (and also since the whole "oh no, I got aroused" thing is just an excuse anyway), even wearing Crocs would not be safe in this regard. Yet some particularly unsympathetic or tragic character may take this attitude one step further, demanding the double think that we should all consider men to be some kind of monsters while still considering them to be the superior gender - morally and otherwise. This is done by blaming women for (by their appearance or mere existence) "tempting" men and thus making any sex-crimes against them their own fault. Naturally, many works portray this attitude as barbaric misogyny. With or without any such aspects of ideology or social structure, a character of either gender may use another character's attractiveness or way of dressing as a lame excuse to misbehave and then claim never my fault.

While this trope seems like it would fall into the "always male" category, and traditionally it was, these days it is branching out to other genders. Having said that, the way it's played out does tend to be sexist: a woman bearing this trope tends to be self-destructive, while men use it to be destructive and abusive to others.

Makes for a particularly tragic politically incorrect villain - or anti-villain. See also troubled sympathetic bigot, then let me be evil, and internalized categorism. Contrast the two tropes that oppose this one, celibate hero ("Sex Is Evil, So I Won't Have It", which can also be paralyzing fear of sexuality) and ethical slut ("Sex Is Not Evil, And I Am Horny"). Contrast romanticized abuse for when abusive sexual gratification is played for fetish fuel rather then angst, contrast the polar opposite i'm a man, i can't help it when the male character doesn't even try to keep his sexual urges in check.

Examples of how real cases have been portrayed in media is okay.

