Does sex just happen as naturally as breathing around you? When alone with a woman/man, is the next shot always of the clothes hitting the floor? Did an instant harem or stable appear at your house? Perhaps you have a compelling voice, and take to its logical conclusion. You almost certainly make bow chicka wow wow music on the soundtrack when you walk down the street. People will look.

You, my friend, are The Pornomancer. In pornographic movies, the characters usually don't earn their sexual conquests so much as receive them from some greater power... whether that power is in-universe magic or simply a godlike, but lazy, writer or director (or both). There wouldn't be much of a porn movie if the characters didn't have sex, and nobody involved, including most of the audience, cares whether the seduction would be plausible in the real world. So it isn't. Thus, in the grand tradition of wizards who are helpful to lazy writers, this field of study is known as "pornomancy."Often pornomancers are a walking deus sex machina, but they can exist in more family-friendly works, such as the casanova in a sit-com, or the femme fatale in a detective show. Pornomancy is often exhibited by stupid sexy flanders and any other character so hot that they engender attraction from same-sex heterosexuals.

pornomancy is sometimes blatantly supernatural in a work, particularly in hentai, where powers are almost immediately used for their most sexual application upon being obtained or there's actually a loose magical justification for all that sexing, but more often the cause of a character's ability to make respected citizens become slobbering sex maniacs is completely non-magical within the context of the show's universe: it simply starts off as an informed ability and everyone pretty much accepts it as a given (with the occasional hand wave when writers feel frisky). Even if the show has no established super-normal content, pornomancy is still possible through TV magic.

The Pornomancer is a non-gendered trope often combined with the casanova, even the guys want him, even the girls want her, the vamp, femme fatale, stupid sexy flanders, and other tropes that take note of the tendency of characters in fiction to have  supernatural powers of getting laid. kavorka man would be a sub-trope; by definition his power over women is mysterious and ill-defined. In worlds where magic or its sci-fi equivalent exist, this is often related to power perversion potential.

Aversions of this trope occur when, for example, the casanova "earns" the conquest plausibly to the viewers. Subversions take place when the informed ability turns out to be just that... for example, the femme fatale's charms fail and she strikes out miserably; it's also a subversion when the person with said powers knows he or she can use them for sex, but doesn't.

It's also possible for a person to have this ability but not want to use it. If the Pornomancer is apathetic or even against his/her own abilities, they are an accidental pornomancer.

More scholarly tropers should note that the prefix of "pornomancer" is being used in its more modern sense of an abbreviation of "pornography" rather than carrying the direct meaning of the root word "porn?" meaning "prostitute".

When used as a defined in-universe power, this is a subtrope of whatevermancy, but doesn't have to be. When it's just implied because the writers want a character to have improbable fornication skills, it is not.

