Flight has always fascinated humanity. First came legends of winged humanoids and floating continents, then eventually airships and actual airplanes. When the aircraft carrier was invented, its sheer awesome (and force projection) made the battleship a military relic. Considering this, is it any surprise that people have wanted to combine the awesome of the airplane, aircraft carrier, zeppelin and floating continent into one?

Well, the result of this daydreaming is the Airborne Aircraft Carrier! This is a step above the simple boat most video games use to ferry the player around; it is a literal mobile floating fortress and airport, capable of raining death from above like few fictional military mashup machines. At its most basic, it serves as a refueling station like an island in the sky; a carrier; add some guns to make it a combination battleship; and if you're into that sort of thing, robot transformations. A similar concept on a smaller scale is the usage of parasite aircraft piggybacking on larger ones.

As listed below, this one was attempted several times in real life. So far, it's only really worked with airships, which are the only thing stable enough to link with the planes, not to mention have the lift and size necessary to house internal aircraft hangars. Airplane aircraft "carriers" thus far have found it too difficult for the aircraft return to the mothership to be considered practical, often resulting in the deaths of test pilots that tried and/or damage to both airplanes. Storage is also an issue; the Goblin, for example, was ridiculously squat in order to fit inside a bomber plane, making it largely useless as a fighter. The previous Curtiss F9C Sparrowhawk (the planes flown from the Navy airships) was a biplane and already obsolescent at the time it entered service, and its light armament (two rifle-calibre machine guns) would have been completely useless by the time it would have been called upon to enter world war ii - fortunately, the plane was out of service by then, retired with the loss of its carriers. Oftentimes the planes were simply festooned all over the mothership like Christmas decorations, which was problematic for obvious reasons.

If it's a living ship, it's probably also a living gasbag, since flapping wings would be awkward on something this size. Compare to the battlestar, which is this with heavy armament of its own and in space! Occasionally part of a standard sci-fi fleet.

