Ah, the heroes r us HQ. For some heroes, it's the place they eat, sleep, and generally live their lives; for others, it's a great place to kick back, relax, and have wacky hijinks with their friends while on downtime; and for everyone, it's the perfect place to run to after a failed mission, or at least an especially difficult one. After all, you gotta have a place for your heroes' R&R, and what better place than your very safe and secure home base, right?

Cue explosions, warning klaxons, and many "this is not a drill" announcements. somebody set up us the bomb, indeed.

For shows featuring a super hero team, a military group, a secret service, or anything else that requires a mission control to operate, an attack on their headquarters is a great way to increase drama and tension. When an ordinary mission is botched, the heroes still have some place to return, lick their wounds, and plan their next encounter; but if they lose their homebase? Big morale crusher right there. Not only have they lost a safe haven and one of their biggest resources, but for many heroes, their very home as well.If it gets destroyed while the heroes are out (or worse, despite their best efforts), have fun watching troy burn.

This situation is when the mole frequently surfaces. You can also expect the story's supporting characters to have their own (freaking awesome) moments, typically tied into their position - the agency's weapons guy will break out the big gun, the university physics professor will cobble together a death ray while the math teacher calculates firing solutions, the magical gardener will animate the topiary animals, etc.

Naturally, this is a great excuse to trash the set. If the attack succeeds and the base falls, it could create a shocking defeat legacy. Compare with die hard on an x, where at least one character is left to fight back after the initial attack, win or lose. See also the siege, protect this house. When the heroes pull this on the villain, it's storming the castle. If the destruction is upgraded to the entire city or country, this may be a throwaway country.

Often occurs at the beginning of videogames where you must fight back from the brink.

If you are looking for a trope related to the phrase "All Your Base Are Belong To Us", see zero wing. Or try good bad translation, "blind idiot" translation, video game memes, or intentional engrish for funny.

