The dark knight. The caped crusader. the world's greatest detective. The iconic cowl. The badass normal superhero. the Goddamn Batman.Created by Bob Kane and an uncredited bill finger, Batman is also one of the greatest trope makers and trope codifiers in not just comics, but all visual media; one of the oldest superheroes still in print — having debuted in Detective Comics #27 (May 1939) — Batman is one of the three best known superheroes ever (alongside superman and spider-man), and one of the most popular comic book characters in history. The Batman mythos has expanded into virtually every medium in the decades since the character's debut, and there's a good argument to be made for Batman being the most critically and culturally successful superhero in history. When veterans such as Superman have taken beatings in the zeitgeist for perceived problems, Batman's legacy and relevancy have never truly faded in the public eye, and his popularity across multiple sections of the mainstream remains as strong — if not stronger — than it was back in the 1940s. He's pretty much the only superhero to date who could pull out a lightsaber with no explanation at all and get away with it, and he's arguably the world's most popular superhero.At the age of eight, Bruce Wayne witnessed the murder of his parents at the hands of a mugger. Swearing vengeance against all criminals, Bruce used his parents' vast fortune to travel the world and hone his fighting abilities and detective skills. When he felt he was ready, Bruce returned to his beloved Gotham City, intent on removing the criminal element that had overrun the city in his absence. Donning a costume with a bat motif to strike fear into criminals and armed with his keen intellect and arsenal of crime-fighting gadgetry, Bruce protects the streets of Gotham as "The Batman" at night while pretending to be a clueless playboy billionaire by day.Over time, Batman's swung between a bright, shiny cape and a dark, nightmarish shadow archetype and the iconic cowl; in modern times, it's usually the latter. A number of comic-book writers love the contrast between Superman and Batman — a symbol of hope for the innocent versus a symbol of fear for wrongdoers — and often play it up when the two are paired together.This series has a (very long) character sheet.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          