The series that revived the Transformers franchise after a years-long recession, Beast Wars premiered in 1996 and was animated in CGI. It was produced by the now bought-out mainframe entertainment, hot on the heels of its predecessor ReBoot. Hugely controversial among the unpleasable fanbase that are Transfans due to the wildly different direction it took from the original series, Beast Wars was not based around the familiar Autobots and Decepticons, but their descendants, the Maximals and Predacons, who now transform into Earth animals instead of vehicles or household items. Lumped with this series is the sequel, Beast Machines, although they are not considered a single story arc.Beast Wars treats the events of Transformers Generation 1 as a mixture of history and legend; it never gives enough details to figure out which Generation One (cartoon, comics or something else) it comes from or what happened to everyone.After stealing a precious macguffin from the Cybertronian archives, a small band of Predacon renegades (defying the peace that befell the planet after the Autobots won the "Great War" against the Decepticons) crash-land on a mysterious planet along with their Maximal pursuers. The planet, heavily seeded with a raw, crystalline version of the Transformers' fuel source Energon, proves so harmful to them that they need to convert into animal Alternate Modes to survive.The battle then begins, with Optimus Primal dubbing this conflict, "the beast wars". The reasons behind the Predacon's theft of the macguffin grew in importance, the inclusion of a third party (the sufficiently advanced aliens known as the "Vok"), along with a mythology twist that really clinches the story.Despite the cries of "trukk not munky!" from the purists, Beast Wars was actually quite innovative for its time; not only because of the aforementioned CGI, but also because of the tight, involving storyline, significant character development, and revolutionary ball joint technology that not only made the toys much easier to play with and pose, but also provided more complex transformations, realistic alt-modes and much more poseable figures. In addition the show made attempts to push the boundary of contemporary children's shows via witty word plays and the graphic violence that was let slip because flying robot parts have been permissible since time immemorial.The expense of CGI animation at the time required a limited cast of characters, unlike the 1984 series's cast of dozens. Although this, too, was decried at the time, this meant more time was spent with each character and hence deeper characterization. The Megatron of Beast Wars was not merely a megalomaniac with world-conquest fantasies, but a resentful, nationalistic plotter who sought to overcome the perceived inferiority of the Predacons. Beginning as a fairly standard femme fatale, Blackarachnia went on to become a trope codifier of dark action girls,  One of the show's generally acknowledged high points is the character of dinobot: an honourable Predacon who deserts his side, but still feels some fealty to Predacon ideals, he is constantly torn in his allegiances.Say what you will of the quality, this show set the standard for all other Transformers franchises from then on. Even now, it just won't die; a "10th Anniversary" release of the original toys was created (With new figures for Primal and Megatron), and fan favorites Blackarachnia and Waspinator were carried over into Transformers Animated. to some fans, Beast Wars is the best Transformers incarnation of all time due to its high quality and production values. It isn't uncommon for longtime Generation 1 fans to claim that the show is their favorite Transformers series.The sequel series, Beast Machines, was...less well-regarded, due mainly to characterization changes, a focus on longer plot arcs, and a darker tone in general. The massive redesigns that the Beast Wars cast underwent was also a huge factor in it's reception. Despite this, it has its own fanbase. See its own page for more information.In Japan, two traditionally animated series were created to fill in the production gaps between seasons. Beast Wars II and Beast Wars Neo. They were never dubbed, as they don't fit in very well with the continuity of either the source material or each other. Both shows are much more light-hearted than their Western counterparts, and aimed at a much younger audience than Beast Wars (which could plausibly be called the first Transformers series aimed at teenagers, not just children). It's also worth noting that the Japanese release of the CGI Beast Wars cartoon also changed the dialog for a younger audience, almost to the point of being a gag dub.Transformers: Timelines has provided a few prequel stories to Beast Wars.Here's a character sheet. Now updated with characters from the expanded universe. Please feel free to add to it.There is now also recap in desperate need of assistance.                                                                                                                                