

There are very few situations that warrant an "oh, crap" quite as much as waking up in the villain's Evil Lair. The reasons are many and obvious, but this wouldn't be tv tropes if we didn't analyze 'em all!

For starters, the place is probably full of death traps, and the owner is likely not far off and just waiting to sneak up on the intruder at just the right time. That they've been brought to the lair alive is seldom good news, he "has you now, pretty!" and can intend anything from marrying, killing, eating, mating, or wearing the captive. Fun times.

If that isn't nerve wracking enough, the villain and/or monster might be sleeping not-very-soundly among the memorabilia and leftovers from their last kill. If the hero is really up a creek, he or she will wake up next to said villain, with the latter keeping a paw on them or wearing the only key to the door out around their neck.

Which makes the idea of a free protagonist willingly exploring the lair once they find it (and alone, which is usually the case) all the more bizarre. Of course, exploring the lair represents an enormous opportunity for the heroes. If they don't know who has been killing them off, or how to kill the unkillable, exploring the lair represents a treasure trove of clues in the form of finding a stalker shrine, shrine to self, supervillain lair or other clues to their identity/weakness (remember, villains always keep the one thing that can harm them in their lair). It can also present them with the irresistible and incredibly dangerous chance to attack the villain or monster in their sleep. The genre savvy advise the true companions to never split the party; threaten to leave the so-called coward to wait alone to get him to cooperate, if necessary.

Typically, whoever is doing the exploring may be unlucky and killed or captured, or get lucky and manage to hide from the villain and escape in a tense and nail biting sequence (or think they did, only to have their arm bust through a wall and catch them). Usually, they get just as far as the threshold before the one, tiny sound wakes it, or it shows up at the doorway. survival varies by victim, of course.   In  In  In    In  In    Near the end of  Rosella does this in  The entire point of the  This is essentially  After the Space Station is destroyed and the baby metroid captured in  Subverted in  Riley and Kalani end up doing this by accident in chapter 23 of  In a parody of 