A spooky house. A staple of horror. Where haunted castles would appear in European tales, the Haunted House takes its place in American stories. It is commonly associated with bumps in the night, strange lights, and a shady history involving violence and terror.

It might be a ramshackle abandoned shack standing alone. Or a big fancy house maintained by a creepy housekeeper. Or a typical suburban home built on an indian burial ground. Or has a preturbed poltergeist with unfinished business using it as a personal psychological torment zone. It has a distressing tendency of killing its way through a family receiving it as an unexpected inheritance, and if it gets a sufficiently sordid reputation it will be chronicled by a haunted house historian who tries to warn new would-be victims- who of course read it as a travel guide.

The house itself may seem alive, with a mind of its own, yet it may be surrounded by dead trees and blackened grass. Will usually be always in permanent night time, if not having localised grave clouds.

When you enter, the "wind" closes the door behind you- and likely will not reopen until its time for the next set of schmucks to take the bait. Creepy portraits may adorn the walls and the eyes may literally follow your every move. There are probably cobwebs everywhere, draped over the ever-changing portraits. The ominous pipe organ may start playing Bach's Toccata and Fugue in D Minor all on its own. Mirrors reflect things that aren't there... when they aren't all broken. There will probably be at least a couple bookcase passages and booby traps.

Many haunted houses as depicted in film and TV (particularly vintage productions), and in videogames, tend to be bigger on the inside, with seemingly endless corridors and remote areas and rooms that seem incongruous with exterior views of the building. Sometimes it's simply because artists are not architects, but frequently there is an implication that the haunted house is a form of eldritch location: a mobile maze in a negative space wedgie. If you find yourself in one of these, expect endless corridors and scooby-dooby doors to be the least of your problems. In particularly bad cases, as the house gathers more life force and fear energy expect increasing levels of bizarrchitecture and malevolent architecture, particularly if you're getting closer to figuring out how to get out or appoaching the heart of the house. In the core of these places expect to find blatant alien geometry, or possibly even a full blown psychological torment zone.

This is somewhat a discredited trope nowadays, with parodies, abandoned hospitals, and amusement park attractions being similarly popular to the straight portrayals. It's also an enduring trope, however, with stories of haunted houses going back at least to the ancient Romans, making it older than feudalism.

Compare haunted headquarters, which is any haunted primary setting, and old dark house, which may or may not have a supernatural element. big boo's haunt is this trope in video games. Will often end up invoking never recycle a building, for good reason.

If it's merely the setting for a scooby-doo hoax involving ten little murder victims, see old dark house.

For the atari 2600 game of the same name, go here. For the gottlieb pinball of the same name, go here.