

A hidden base would probably be best hidden in some bland ubiquitous building or under some random field or street. After all, bases would be easier for the enemy to find if you give them easy points of reference.

However in fiction that simply isn't dramatic enough, not only does your evil tower of ominousness gain Evil Brownie Points for being cool and domineering, it also gains them if it is actually a well known real life landmark you've taken over. An elaborate underground base also gains kudos for being underneath, or very close to, somewhere with which viewers will be familiar. This actually goes both ways as heroes seem just as prone to settling in such a location as villains are.

Mount Rushmore is an oddly popular location; perhaps because it's easy to imagine those presidential heads not being made up of solid rock but instead holding masses of secret rooms inside. It must get awfully crowded in there.

Note this trope does not cover bases in or under fictitious landmarks like Fantastic Four's Baxter Building or "almost" landmarks like "The Jeffersonian Institute" in Bones. It also does not cover a fictional agency openly using a landmark as their base, such as UNIT operating out of the UN building in Doctor Who.

Of course this makes a monumental battle all the more likely to happen if and when the series has the base attacked.

Also see weaponized landmark, where the landmark shoots back...

 In    In  In  The  Mr. Majestic, Wildstorm's  The Quorom, an all purpose evil organization from  A  The  In  In  In  In   In the earliest issues of Marvel's  In 1978's   The villains in  In  The first live-action  In  The huge movie studio in   CONTROL headquarters was under the Smithsonian Castle in    In the  Part of the backstory for  In the    In  In the  In the  In    Averted in   The Canary Wharf Tower one was done by the 90s remake of  The notorious Belgian  The Torchwood Institute has had bases:

 UNIT has one: Under the Tower of London in "The Christmas Invasion" (revisited in "The Power of Three" and "The Day of the Doctor"). It beat their early place that had a conspicuous "Keep Out" sign.

 Various bad guys have based themselves in/under:

 They make an attempt to  Canary Wharf is also the headquarters of the British time travelling military in an  In  Similarly, in  Nearly  In   In    In the  Due to the nature of the  Though they maintain more conventional safehouses, The Chain in   In one episode of  In  Parodied on  Parodied on  The indie computer-animation short   The White Cliffs of Dover hide a network of formerly secret underground tunnels.

 Gustave Eiffel built a private apartment for his own use on top of the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

 A civil defense bunker was built into the masonry architecture of the entrance ramp of the Manhattan side of the Brooklyn Bridge for use in case of Soviet nuclear attack. It was then forgotten about until a routine inspection came across it by accident in 2006, still stockpiled with blankets (marked "For Use Only After Enemy Attack") and cookies. Such bunkers and shelters were ubiquitous in cities across the US when nuclear attack was an everyday concern, but most were cleared out and closed down with the end of the Cold War.

