The last son of krypton. The man of steel. the man of tomorrow. the big blue boy scout. The iconic cape. the definitive flying brick. The big good of the dc universe.The superhero.while not quite the first superhero, he is certainly the trope codifier (and "super-" makes him the trope namer). Has been published continuously by dc comics for over 75 years. He first appeared in Action Comics #1 (June, 1938).On the technologically advanced planet of Krypton, scientist jor-el discovers that his planet will soon be destroyed by natural disasters. No one will believe him, however, and in a desperate attempt to save what can be saved, Jor-El builds a small rocket vessel to carry his infant son, Kal-El, to a different planet — Earth. Because Kryptonians are human aliens, the boy can blend in without being seen as alien.As Krypton explodes, baby Kal-El is sent to Earth. He lands outside of the rural town of Smallville, a small town in Kansas (although it wasn't too clear originally — see wikipedia for a full list of canonical locations). The baby is adopted by jonathan and martha kent, who name the boy Clark, give him a loving home and teach him right from wrong.However, Clark turns out to be different from humans after all. Kryptonians had evolved to absorb and store solar energy and to tolerate high-gravity environments that would immobilize or even kill weaker species. While on Krypton, which was fifteen times as massive as Earth and orbited a relatively low-heat Red Giant (or in some versions Red Dwarf), their physical abilities were about identical to humans. When exposed to Earth's lower gravity and the rays of its much younger, brighter yellow Sun, Clark learns that the surplus of energy gives him incredible powers, which increase as he grows up. Deciding to use his power for good, Clark puts on some spandex (or indestructible Kryptonian uber-cloth, depending on the writer) and fights crime as Superman! (Or at first as superboy, in the silver age version of his origin). When not fighting evil, he masquerades as a mild-mannered reporter for a great metropolitan newspaper, The Daily Planet; this career helps him find disasters and emergencies that much sooner and does not require him to closely account for his whereabouts to his employers.Naturally, the Clark Kent/Superman dichotomy—most particularly, the question of which is the "real" person and which is the "mask"—has been explored a great deal, and has changed over time (with Kent going from nervous, geeky klutz to sharp-witted intrepid reporter, among other changes). In the golden and silver age, Clark Kent was little more than a façade for Superman. After Crisis on Infinite Earths, this idea was reversed. In some versions, both are essential parts of who he is; others, particularly alan moore, see both as masks worn by Kal-El to interact with humanity. Both sides also tend to be a lot more psychologically/emotionally vulnerable than you'd expect. Given his powers, and the usual stereotypes about strength of his level, it would be easy to mistake him for a simplistic oaf; but Supes is actually quite a complex guy.Aside from fighting crime, much of Clark's personal life is explored in relation to his supporting cast from the Daily Planet, his hometown of Smallville, and his beloved home city of metropolis. Possibly the most famous supporting cast of any superhero, it consists of a large number of changing characters, the fixtures of which are: his doting parents Jonathan and Martha (aka "Ma and Pa") Kent (pre crisis, throughout his childhood and teen years, before dying shortly after Clark's high school graduation; post-Crisis, advising him well into adulthood; and in the New 52 both dying before he becomes Superman); his gruff, hot-tempered, long-suffering boss, Perry White, who gladly accepts Clark's constant disappearances and eccentricities as long as he comes back with a headline story; his best friend (in both identities) jimmy olsen, a young cub reporter/photographer with a wildly fluctuating age, the highest weirdness magnet rating in the DC universe and the unique gift of a signal watch he can use to call Superman anytime he gets into trouble; and most importantly, his sharp-tongued, recklessly determined go-getter of a reporting partner (and longstanding object of his affections) lois lane, who was desperately in love with superman but who always dismissed the mild clark kent. However, in some interpretations, she would eventually fall for Clark, not Superman, before learning they were the same person and marrying him/them. In other takes, Superman has been a bachelor or dated/married different characters (currently, he's dating Wonder Woman).Originally created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, two sons of Jewish immigrants who, after several tries, finally got him published in Action Comics #1, where he immediately took off; imitations of him pretty much created the golden age of comic books.This wasn't their first attempt at the character they had in mind. Ironically, the first character they called "Superman" was intended as a villain with superior mental powers (also ironically looking a lot like lex luthor, bald of evil and everything), but when that concept flopped they revisited the idea by exploring the real idea of a "Super"man and in collecting their ideas it formed the now famous "Faster than a speeding bullet, more powerful than a locomotive..." pitch.One prototype Superman comic was written by Siegel and Schuster in 1936. It depicts Superman rescuing innocent hostages from kidnappers. This pre-dates Action Comics #1 by nearly three years.His powers include super strength (to the point where he can push planets), super speed (several times faster than light speed), flight, x-ray vision, heat vision, super breath, freeze breath, nigh-invulnerability (surviving supernova explosions and black-holes), super senses, and possibly others, depending on the interpretation.On the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism, he and the series he stars in almost universally tends toward the idealistic side, being the iconic cape.Along with batman and wonder woman, he's one of the big three of the dcu. He has also been a member of the justice league of america on and off (mostly on) since its founding.