Interesting military trivia: the aircraft carrier has supplanted the battleship in terms of usefulness and importance. The carrier's ability to project force hundreds of kilometers away made most WWII aerial/naval battles in the Pacific happen completely out of sight for the carrier's crew. Missile technology itself and remote piloting may do this to the carrier as well, but the current status quo — and an author's potential setting — are maintained by electronic countermeasures to disrupt missile guidance, accurate point defenses, and electronic warfare potentially compromising the effectiveness of remotely piloted (or automated) craft. Currently, major warships that aren't carriers or amphibious assault ships are missile ships, each capable of launching a relative macross missile massacre, so the other side better hope it isn't point defenseless.

In space, however, the standard top-of-the-line ship is a hybrid carrier/battleship. It has the heavy armor and big guns of a battleship, along with the fighters and point defense weapons of a carrier. This makes perfect sense, assuming carrying fighters in space makes sense, because:

 A)  B) The extremely thin atmosphere and the huge amount of free space means that the range of weapons are enormous ( C) Lack of gravity means you don't have to waste the entire top on runways and the entire bottom on being underwater.

A type of military mashup machine. Compare the Battlestar's "little brother", the airborne aircraft carrier. This trope is named for the Battlestar class of warships from Battlestar Galactica, one of the first such depictions to reach widespread audiences. Has nothing to do with the elite Autobot fighters from Transformers Return Of Convoy.

Often part of a standard sci-fi fleet. Naturally comes hand-in-hand with the space fighter; given that strikecraft are an important part of a Battlestar, see also their analysis page for some arguments on their use or lack thereof, which may have knock-on effects on the feasibility of Battlestars.

As a general rule, the Battlestar is portrayed in one of two ways:

 Type 1: Battleship carrying fighters. This is essentially a capital ship with the primary offensive options being its own big guns, with the fighters to complement the defenses or to provide additional strike options.  Type 2: Carrier with extra guns and armor. This ship essentially behaves like a real life aircraft carrier, in that the primary offensive option is its embarked fighter wing, and the guns and armor lean more towards self defense options. The Battlestar Tends to be rare in video games due to competitive balance that somehow requires carriers and transports to be unarmed.

In real life wet navies, it does not work. Battleships and carriers require very different paradigms; the former are built for taking and dealing out heavy damage, which demands certain armor and armament characteristics, such as compartmentalization to minimize damage spread but also cut into holding space. Fighter landing strips, hangars and the stores for their fuel and munitions would detract from this role, leaving you with a master of none that cannot fight or tank as well as a pure combatant or service as many fighters as a pure carrier. This didn't stop some attempts from being made. When initially launched in the late 1920s, the USS Lexington and Saratoga had a complement of cruiser-class 8-inch guns. Japan created hybrid Battleship/seaplane carriers out of a couple of old battleships, Ise and Hyuga in the wake of losses at Midway. The naysayers turned out to be right: Ise and Hyuga were total failures, and the large guns on the US ships interfered with flight operations if actually used, and they were removed in 1941. Other experiments never got even this far.

In space, however, this model is less silly than it might appear. A trio of points: First, given how planets move through space and the need for at least rudimentary slingshot orbits, trajectories are actually fairly predictable in time and space, therefore, combat is likely to be very short range, though you could send a bunch of missiles hurtling down this space "lane". Although fightercraft are less useful in a traditional role, they can bring weapons (e.g. missiles) closer, in under the target's point-defense range, and at this point in time we can't conceive of a spacecraft that could take a missile and keep fighting, but if we could take the missile out early, the most it could do could be irradiate the ship, and you can armor against that. You can actually make an argument for almost any weapon in space, though for kinetics you'd need a propellant that doesn't need outside air, and be willing to live with the fact that you're putting hyper-lethal debris somewhere, especially immediate if you're fighting in near-orbit. Thirdly, deflector shields could help mitigate some of the carrier's vulnerabilities, especially if physical armor is useless such that battleships don't have superior durability after all.

Furthermore, depending on the faster-than-light travel system, the carrier strike group system used in real life may not work. In real life, enemy ships have to battle through fighter screens and escorts to get to the lightly-armored carrier. However, in a universe where the FTL has a lack of no warping zone, enemy battleships could bypass screening elements to "jump" into close quarters combat and shred carriers with alpha strikes, denying your side most of its strikecraft and thus offensive power, insofar as this is a universe where fighters have useful anti-capital firepower. In such a universe, it would only make sense to armor and upgun carriers to survive these sorts of lightning strikes, thus giving rise to the battlestar concept.

The largest ones may be examples of mile-long ship or even planet spaceship.

Not to be confused with the 1981 game show Battlestars.

