One of cartoon network's most popular original series, originally called "The Whoopass Girls" by creator craig mccracken (they were created with "sugar, spice, everything nice," and a can of Whoopass) before it got picked up by the network during the renaissance age of animation. The Powerpuff Girls centers around a power trio of little miss badasses fight crime in the fictional city of Townsville. These artificial human girls, who have no discernible fingers, toes, ears, or noses, were created when Professor Utonium accidentally added Chemical X to his mixture of sugar, spice and everything nice.The series' heroines are Blossom, "commander and the leader," who often acts the drill sergeant nasty; Bubbles, "the joy and the laughter," whose personality is very similar to that of her namesake from Jabberjaw (but not quite a dumb blonde), and Buttercup, "the toughest fighter," and the tomboyish action girl with a bad attitude. Their simian arch-enemy Mojo Jojo wears a helmet to cover his enlarged brain and speaks in a manner reminiscent of bad anime dubbing. Aside from the obvious anime influences, most of the series' supporting characters are drawn in the style of 2 Stupid Dogs (not surprisingly, as the creator of the show worked on that cartoon).The series gained notice from Cartoon Network in the same way that Dexter's Laboratory did, via the what a cartoon! show contest for nonprofessional animators. It's possible that the two series have a shared universe; the animation is very similar, the creators for both series collaborated on both series, and "tv puppet pals" and superheroes like Major Glory and Val Hallen appear in both series.Warner Bros. released an animated feature, The Powerpuff Girls Movie, in 2002 (which sadly bombed at the theaters due to bad marketing from Warner Bros, though it does have the honor of being the only Cartoon Network series to have a theatrical movie). A very successful comic book series (from DC Comics no less). An anime version, Demashita! Powerpuff Girls Z, hit the airwaves in Japan on July 1st, 2006.Ten years after the show ended (and four after Powerpuff Girls Rule special). The series came back in the form of a CGI special in 2014. Most likely as a test pilot for a reboot (though oddly this was after Craig had left Cartoon Network to work with Disney on Wander over Yonder, and even before then he has left the show after season 4). Supporting this is the that the girls returned to comic book format in September 2013, this time under the IDW brand as part of a deal to allow classic Cartoon Network cartoons to be told in new adventures. Sure enough, a brand new series was announced for a 2016 release.now has a character sheet.there is also a recap page that would appreciate some assistance.Now with its own comics page.The Girls and Mojo are set to appear in the IDW crisis crossover comic book event Cartoon Network Super Secret Crisis War in June 2014.   