The Smurfs (Les Schtroumpfs) are originally an extremely popular (and still ongoing) belgian comic book series by cartoonist Pierre Culliford (aka Peyo) that started in the 1960s. It is more universally known for the long-running saturday morning cartoon series that hanna-barbera created for nbc in the 1980s.The Smurfs (originally called Schtroumpfs in French) are tiny creatures, who looked human except for their blue skin and tails, and were constantly pursued by Gargamel, an impoverished sorcerer who plotted to steal the Smurfs so he could create gold (or eat them, he's never really been all that clear on his motivations). Papa Smurf, an alchemist in his own right, generally saves the day.The Smurfs were born in another comic, Johan and Peewit, where they made their first appearances in October, 1958. they became so popular they got their own spin-off books. Starting with short comics in 1959, they received their first album in 1963. These stories eventually overshadowed the comics that created them.The Smurfs tended to be named according to their personality or occupation. They were all males and because of this, storks were responsible for bringing them to the village until Gargamel created a female Smurf with black hair. After she entered the Smurfs' mushroom village, however, Papa Smurf transformed "Smurfette" into a blonde, with an appropriate change in personality. Later, the Smurfs made human friends such as Johan and Peewit (comics), or the canon King Gerard (hanna-barbera cartoon series) and the Winslows (2011 movie). Also, three Smurfs were irrevocably rascalized, and later created another female Smurf called Sassette. (More information here.) They also have three wikis dedicated to them: Smurf wiki, another Smurf wiki and the Sony Pictures wiki.Way before the hanna-barbera cartoon, there a 1965 black-and-white 87 minute animated film called “Les Aventures des Schtroumpfs” released in theatres in Belgium. It consisted of five short cartoons made in the previous years for broadcasting on Walloon TV. German copies and copies with Dutch subtitles are known to exist. The stories were based on existing Smurf stories like The Black Smurfs and The Smurfs and the Egg, and were created by writer Maurice Rosy and artist Eddy Ryssack from the small Dupuis animation studios. In total, ten animated shorts were created between 1961 and 1967, the first series in black and white and the later ones in color.Then in 1976, “La Flûte à six Schtroumpfs”, was released. Michel Legrand provided the musical score to the film and it was considered the only Smurfs film until 2011. The film would in 1983 be released in the United States after the animated series became popular there in an English language dubbed version titled "The Smurfs and the Magic Flute". A few more full-length Smurf movies were made, most notably The Baby Smurf and Here are the Smurfs, created from episodes of the Hanna-Barbera television cartoon series.Although not strictly merchandise-driven, the Smurfs were featured in just about every category of products intended for children: dolls, toys, clothing, comic books and even a breakfast cereal. Besides their Saturday morning series, the Smurfs appeared in two christmas specials and other seasonal programs in prime time. The      An untitled all-CGI animated     Gargamel trying to enter the Smurfs' village but usually ending up back at his own house because only a smurf (or people the smurfs trust) can find the village. Some plots have him overcome this. International Adaptation: the original name is "Schtroumpf", a word without any meaning which was randomly made up by Peyo Overuse of the word  Jokey Smurf's exploding "surprise packages". Brainy Smurf moralizing and subsequently being hit with a wooden mallet (thrown out of the village in the animated version). Papa Smurf leading the other Smurfs on a long journey.                                                                                                                                                                                                               