Young Justice is an animated television series based on dc comics, created by greg weisman (Gargoyles, The Spectacular Spider-Man, W.I.T.C.H.) and Brandon Vietti (Batman: Under the Red Hood, Superman: Doomsday, The Batman), produced by dc entertainment and warner bros. Animation, and distributed by cartoon network.The first season follows a group of teenaged superheroes — robin (jesse mc cartney), aqualad (khary payton), kid flash (Jason Spisak), superboy (nolan north) and miss martian (Danica McKellar), later joined by Artemis (Stephanie Lemelin), zatanna (lacey chabert), red arrow (crispin freeman) and rocket (Kali Troy) — who are members of a covert operation team under the authority of the justice league. The Team and the League battle a cabal of supervillains known as "The Light" and its minions, though the Light goes to great lengths to make sure the heroes never discover they exist as a single organization.The second season is set five years later with an expanded team of old and new members. The now-adult Robin, now known as nightwing, is still on the Team as leader and mentor to the junior members — the new robin, wonder girl, Beast Boy, Lagoon Boy, blue beetle and others. Superboy and Miss Martian also remain as mentors, while other members have left the team, some to join the League itself.Members of the show's creative team include Sam Register (Teen Titans, Ben 10, Batman: The Brave and the Bold) as executive producer, Phil Bourassa (Justice League: Crisis on Two Earths) as lead character designer, Jamie Thomason (Gargoyles, Hercules) as voice and casting director, and geoff johns overseeing the process as DC's Chief Creative Officer.Despite sharing the title, it is not a direct adaptation of the comic book series of the same name, and the show's story arc is original. However, it does draw material from Young Justice, Teen Titans and other DC Comics series. peter david, chief writer of the Young Justice comic, is also one of the show's writers.The series is set in a "young dc universe", Earth-16 of the DC multiverse, during an era informally dubbed by the powers that be as the New Age of Heroes. While the series follows an episodic format, there are multiple subplots and overall story arcs weaved throughout the episodes. Though the Team's missions are the main focus, their personal lives at home and school are explored as well. The series makes use of many, many characters from the wider DC Universe as the supporting cast, including characters which had never previously been animated.The franchise consists of the cartoon series, a tie-in comic series also called Young Justice, and a video game called Young Justice: Legacy which came out late 2013 for the 3DS, ps3, the Xbox 360, and the PC.The first two episodes were released as a special preview in November 2010. The series properly debuted in January 2011, but it underwent several delays and hiatuses over the year. Starting March 3rd, 2012, the show began airing again as part of cartoon network's new dc nation block. The first season concluded on April 21. The show was renewed for a second season which started airing on April 28, and retitled Young Justice: Invasion. The series went on hiatus for three months after the seventh episode, then again two episodes later, returning on January 5th. The final episode aired on March 16, 2013. Despite a renewal campaign with vocal support from the series' fans, actors, writers, and producers, it was not renewed for a third season.Has a recap page and, in the grand tradition of the internet, the show has its own Wiki.    