The gentle, quiet life of the countryside, peopled by souls of wise simplicity living in harmony with nature. Arcadia is traditionally populated by shepherds and shepherdesses; more recent versions may also include agriculture.

Idealized often to the point of becoming a utopia. Generally portrayed as a place where people still stick to the good old ways, rather than being trapped in the city's bustle. (Unkind souls may sneer at them for being old fashioned.) Though the city dwellers may scorn them for their lack of luxuries, they are happier for not having to rely on material things for happiness.

It may, indeed, be the Good landscape, in contrast with its evil is deathly cold shadowland, grim up north, or the citified shadowland of the deadly decadent court or vice city — in older works (when most people lived in the country) it may contrast with the wild wilderness or the lost woods — and is always the better place in the city vs. the country. It is not, however, a region free from all evils; the expression Et in Arcadia ego (even in Arcadia I — i.e. death — am) comments that the grim reaper also makes appearances here.

A 10-minute retirement often brings the character to Arcadia. A character — perhaps a city mouse who's learned his lesson, or someone who lost his memory, or a nature lover who's finally escaped the vice city — may settle down here for a peaceful life and a quiet romance. The pursuits of Arcadia are often portrayed as bringing life into the world, and are more productive than the destructive pursuits of heroes and villains. Depending on how it is depicted, this can range from idyllic leisure, to unending and hard work — but this work is never too complicated or stressful, but rather peaceful and fulfilling for a character who was desperately looking for a purpose in life. (Plus, of course, all that hard work gives you a good appetite, so you also don't need all the fancy dishes to tempt your stomach, unlike the city.)

The country mouse or the farm boy often come from a (more or less idealized) Arcadia. It often features as home sweet home for an adventurer. Many a retired badass and old master live here full time, having jumped at the call to agriculture. If the question of social relations comes up, it will always turn out to be a close-knit community. The nature lover often appreciates it for the greenery.

A brief visit there is an arcadian interlude.

Closely related to ghibli hills, but inhabited. (They may, in fact, be next to each other in the same story.) Visual media often use it for scenery porn. Often features in a green aesop. In older works, it may contrast to the lost woods. As late as the early nineteenth century, wilderness was not considered attractive scenery; a pleasant view was one of cultivated countryside, usually with human figures in it.

The noble savage lives with even less of civilizations' goods, but operates on the same principle, although he is usually of a different race than the city folks, unlike the Arcadians — in both cases, by whatever definition of race was current.

sweet home alabama is a deep south Arcadia. oireland is usually (though not always) an Arcadia.

Contrast town with a dark secret. The good shepherd calls on Arcadian imagery. Often involves a society with no poverty.

Arcadia is a real region, the hilly middle of the Peloponnese. During the Roman Empire, poets (including Virgil) cast it as the idyllic land of the pastoral. Although thus older than feudalism, it is generally a trope used by city dwellers. Compare it to wild wilderness which it sometimes can overlap with also.

Not to be confused with tom stoppard's play of the same name, or the duran duran spin-off band. Joan of Arcadia and Skies of Arcadia aren't exactly this either. Not to mention all the other things named after Arcadia on Wikipedia.

