To Hollywood writers, the midwestern united states consists mainly of farms and towns of fewer than 10,000 people. The only cities of note are chicago and detroit (Detroit's particularly popular for crime dramas, for obvious reasons). The cities of minneapolis, st. louis, cleveland, milwaukee, Cincinnati, kansas city, and indianapolis only appear if the writer feels like being different. In the minds of most TV and film writers, the idyllic culture of Little House on the Prairie persists into the 21st century.

This comes from the pre-1950's idea of life in the Midwest as it actually used to be. Since then, however, much of the region has been urbanized or at least suburbanized (that famous Prairie is probably a strip-mall now), but the image has persisted despite being a mostly idealized version of modern times. In old theatrical cartoons with farm settings, the soundtrack may include such standard snippets as "Old MacDonald Had a Farm", "Chicken Reel" or "Turkey in the Straw". And of course, hilarity ensues when the city mouse tries to fit in.

It is a part of flyover country and you can expect it to cross into wild wilderness if its a remote part of the country or to dip into sweet home alabama even if its set in the Midwestern region, can over lap with everytown, america if its near or set around a town. Do not confuse it with it deep south, that is a trope dealing with social structure and people not the region itself, or a 'countrified version' of suburbia as this trope exemplifies the openness of an area and sparseness of population and lack of housing.

 Hiromu Arakawa's new manga series    In the  Paige in  Dorothy's Kansas farmyard from   Used fairly realistically and sympathetically in  In the Lifetime movie      The portrayal of Lt. Col. Mitchell's family's Kansas home in  An episode of  The Canadian equivalent is parodied relentlessly in  " Deployed clumsily in Season 4 of  Certain interpretations of  Averted on  Appears to be somewhat averted in the Amy Poehler comedy  Dave of  James of  The ABC comedy  Roz from  Woodrow Tiberius "Woody" Boyd from  Sonny from  Linda Zwordling from  Bailey from  Subverted all to heck (but charmingly!) in  On   Any time  Lake Wobegon, Minnesota, the setting for  The musical  Subverted in  Lampooned  US Acres, again, in  If it's not in the Northeast or on the West Coast (or sometimes even if it is),  The  In  Animator   