When there's a low number of characters populating a small, communal setting, individual characters will often be assigned roles within the community. Of these, a common one is to have the local economy pretty much completely controlled by a shop keeper who runs the only establishment where one can buy and sell goods. In other words, the only shop in town.

Said establishment is usually a small, simple shop (rather than, say, some kind of department store) which nevertheless manages to have a complete monopoly. In other words, it's like a mega corp., only scaled down to match the setting it's in. Note that this setting need not be an an actual, literal "town" for this trope to be in effect: whether the shop is in a forest or a city or a crater on the Moon, as long as there are no others nearby it qualifies.

These places rarely have more than one employee: the proprietor, who tends to be the scrooge and may nor may not be an important supporting character in the work (they won't usually be a central character, however, due to the sedentary nature of their role).

we sell everything and an economy is you appear out of necessity, as the only shop in town has no other stores to spread the wares around. Can be an honest john's dealership, but isn't always.

A sister trope to only law firm in town.

 Ads for stores (and other businesses) sometimes use this trope: characters will be shown to have some kind of problem, and the business being advertised will be presented as if it's the only available solution. Ads for  It is played straight in the  In most of the  In  In  Oleson's Mercantile is the only store in Walnut Grove in   The Scottish village of  Drucker's Grocery Store is the only store in Hooterville, yet it services  Wrangler Jane's trading post (and post office) on       *  Tom Nook's store is the only one in the player's town in the original  Each populated area (for example Castle Town, Goron City and Zora's Domain) in   Likewise, this tends to occur naturally in the  Played absolutely straight in  Averted in  Played around in  In the   Averted and played straight by turns in the  Played around in  Averted in    Averted in  Quite common in the  Free Country, USA in  The  The  Trading posts in remote jungles and such qualify by definition, for example that of J.H. Slick in the   Occasionally happens in rural areas, where a village will be served by one family-run grocery shop. 