Byronic Heroes are charismatic characters with strong passions and beliefs who may act in ways which are contrary to mainstream society. They disagree with society and say "screw the rules, i'm doing what's right!" despite the heavy price that this costs them. He (and it is almost always a male) is on his own side, and has his own philosophy which he will not change for anyone.

His internal conflicts are heavily romanticized. He is a very cerebral character; he broods over his struggles and beliefs. Some are portrayed with a suggestion of dark crimes or tragedies in their past.

 Is usually male and is always considered very attractive physically and in terms of personality, possessing a great deal of magnetism and charisma, using these abilities to achieve social and romantic dominance. One mark against him personality wise, however, is a struggle with his own personal integrity.

 Is very intelligent, perceptive, sophisticated, educated, cunning and adaptable, but also self-centered.

 Is emotionally sensitive, which may translate into being emotionally conflicted, bipolar, or moody,

 Is intensely self-critical and introspective and may be described as dark and brooding. He dwells on the pains or perceived injustices of his life, often to the point of over-indulgence. May muse philosophically on the circumstances that brought him to this point, including personal failings.

 Is cynical, world-weary, and jaded, often due to a  He is extremely passionate, with strong personal beliefs which are usually in conflict with the values of the status quo. He sees his own values and passions as above or better than those of others, manifesting as arrogance or a martyr-like attitude. Sometimes, however, he just sees himself as one who must take the long, hard road to do what must be done.

 His intense drive and determination to live out his philosophy without regard to others' philosophies produces conflict, and may result in a tragic end, should he fail, or revolution, should he succeed. Because of this, he is very rebellious, having a distaste for social institutions and norms and is disrespectful of rank and privilege, though he often has said rank and privilege himself. This rebellion often leads to social isolation, rejection, or exile, or to being treated as an outlaw, but he will not compromise, being unavoidably self-destructive.

vampires are often written as this kind of character, as a way to romanticize an otherwise disturbing creature. Lord Byron himself was the inspiration for one of the first pieces of vampire literature, The Vampyre, by John William Polidori, Byron's personal physician. Oftentimes, to highlight their signature brooding aura, a Byronic Hero will be compared with creatures that have dark, supernatural connotations, with demons, ghosts, and of course, vampires, all being popular choices. love tropes are often involved with this character, but almost always in a very cynical, existential way. Don't hold your breath waiting for the power of love to redeem him.

He has a tendency to be the unfettered, rejecting the morals imposed by society to accomplish his goals, and may overlap with the übermensch, who shares the Byronic Hero's sense of rebellion and superiority. Similarly, a particularly villainous Byronic Hero may be a pragmatic villain, as the two follow their desires without care for others, but nonetheless have no interest in outright evil. More overlapping tropes include utopia justifies the means, which, like a Byronic Hero's style, may be immoral or villainous acts in the name of some higher cause which would otherwise be a positive goal. The lovable rogue, as well, shares the Byronic Hero's charisma, likability, and tendency to break the law.

They are quite often a draco in leather pants, often in-universe as well, due to the magnetic all girls want bad boys appeal of this character. Frequently, a large part of their characterization involves being a manipulative bastard, a deadpan snarker, and/or tall, dark and snarky, perhaps with an awesome ego. A great number will also be rebellious spirits.

Not to be confused with a tragic hero or a tragic villain. Tragic Heroes suffer from a specific sin in particular, which is treated as their tragic flaw, and are often well-intentioned or otherwise blameless. While both characters may ultimately be defeated by their flaws, the tragic heroes and tragic villains tend to suffer more for them in the end, and include an aesop. However, it's not unheard of to see characters who are both Byronic and Tragic heroes.

