Chaotic Good characters are rebels and free spirits who believe in doing good, by their own standards. Some don't have a problem with greater systems such as laws as long as they leave them alone; others are anarchists who believe that too much 'order' is bad for everybody, and the betterment of all can only be achieved by actively rejecting any higher instances of power. Likely to take a intuitive approach to the golden rule, caring about other people's feelings and needs without having to calcify it into specific rules.

A badass grandpa who was CG in his youth may mellow somewhat to neutral good in his old age.

Some flavours of Chaotic Good include:

 Type 1 are those who are more Chaotic than Good. They value freedom, and feel that they and others should be free to pursue their own desires — it just so happens that what they desire is to do good. They do not see doing good as a "duty" and may actively resent any attempts to compel them to do good even if the stakes are high, but will probably end up doing them anyway, justifying their actions by saying that this is what they  Type 2 are those who are more Good than Chaotic. They desire to do good, but also feel that they have a  Type 3 are those devoted to a Chaotic Good cause —  Type 4 is a fair balance between Types 1 and 2. They believe in doing good and in their freedom to do good, but have a grudging or even healthy respect for Unfortunately, characters of this alignment are the most likely good characters to be opposed by the hero antagonist.

An important aspect of Chaotic Good freedom fighters is that they excel in toppling corrupt regimes, but are often pretty terrible with power and responsibility themselves (as some of the examples show). A Chaotic Good character faces a tightrope walk even more narrow than most lawful good characters face because of their competing interests in being a free spirit that wants to do good in the world, and their general disdain for the authority and control over people's lives that they would be wielding to try to do that good. Generally, one of several things happens because of this:

  Delegate their power to a friend or chancellor of some kind.  They decide that the best thing to do with power is just sit on it, and keep it out of more dangerous hands. Doing so winds up making for fairly poor terms in office.

 Shift in Alignment - They just fail to reconcile their philosophy and their practical reality, try to reach too far with one campaign or another, and slide in alignment, either admitting the use of law and order, and sliding to Chaotic Good can be considered the best alignment because it combines a good heart with a free spirit. Chaotic Good can be considered a dangerous alignment because it can disrupt the order of society and punishes those who feel the need for a social framework around themselves.

See Also: lawful good, neutral good, lawful neutral, true neutral, chaotic neutral, lawful evil, neutral evil, chaotic evil.



If you have a difficulty deciding which alignment a good-aligned character belongs to, the main difference between lawful good, neutral good, and Chaotic Good is not their devotion to good, but the methods they believe are best to promote it:

 Even though there are some situations where they can't always use this method,   Most Chaotic Good characters don't constantly break the law, but they cannot see much value in laws (or, for weaker-CCGs, do not see the value in laws that do not function solely to punish evil). They believe that their own consciences are their best guides, and that tying themselves to any given code of conduct would be limiting their own ability to do good. They do not get along with anyone who tries to instill any kind of order over the Chaotic Good character or others, believing these people to be restricting their freedom and the freedom of others; however, most Chaotic Good characters will respect the right of others to impose strong codes of conduct on themselves. Chaotic Good characters often focus very strongly on individual rights and freedoms, and will strongly resist any form of oppression of themselves or anyone else.



Chaotic Good character types typically include:

 Many  Some       Heroes of a        A   More heroic versions of the    The red oni of a good-aligned  Almost any  If they are the protagonist, a   Most  Most good  Most heroic    By obvious reasons, heroic     Many heroic  Most  More sympathetic versions of the  The  The Others, such as all-loving hero, ideal hero, small steps hero, and friend to all living things, can vary between lawful good, neutral good, and Chaotic Good.

On works pages: Character Alignment is only to be used in works where it is canonical, and only for characters who have alignments in-story. There is to be no arguing over canonical alignments, and no Real Life examples, ever.