

The Chaste Hero is a character, usually a teenage male, who is completely oblivious to the appeal of women and to romance in general. Flirtation is dismissed, often without a shred of embarrassment, because he honestly doesn't get it, and sexual advances from the hard-drinking party girl or cool big sis are shrugged off with irritation. This can be a paradoxical commentary on the character's lack of "maturity," but strangely, this rule does not necessarily mean the younger male characters of the cast won't react to attractive people.

The female version is usually tomboyish and a slightly dense jock slowly being cultivated into a budding hard-drinking party girl.

One bonus from this is immunity from awkwardly placed falls, gestures, and hands that plague a lot of characters — and, if it happens, no apologies for it, something the average male would be expected to do. Similarly, it pretty much allows him to interact and talk to any woman in the series, something another friend may be incapable of doing. This is especially useful if the writers are trying to avoid shipping, simply don't want it to seem the guy is taking advantage of having many admirers, or want to set up a romantic admirer who just doesn't get that he just doesn't get it. Quite a few times, in order to allow the Chaste Hero to string along a romantic admirer without seeming like a jerk, they might say something that sounds like a love confession, only for them to continue on by saying that they also love everyone.

The Chaste Hero is very common in "juvenile" fiction, especially in the past. It gets rather annoying when he sometimes wonders why his close female friend is so nice to him.Contrast with the celibate hero and asexuality, tropes dealing with non-clueless characters that either actively shun romance or simply have no interest in it.

Compare innocent fanservice girl and ms. fanservice. To double on the appeal, Chaste Heroes often double as chick magnets. See also clueless chick magnet. If a seeming chaste hero turns out to be far more interested in sex than they appear, you've just met the covert pervert.

