maybe because it sounds really cool, but Commander is a very popular rank in fiction.

In real life navies, commander is the second-most senior field rank, right below the rank of Captain. A commander can be the commanding officer of a ship (a.k.a. the captain), but generally he is the first officer, or as TV Tropes puts it: the number two. The army equivalent is either major or lieutenant colonel, depending on the country; while there is no commander rank in any army, it is used as a title.

Someone who qualifies as commanding coolness can also be of the rank Lieutenant Commander. In the old days, lieutenants would be given command of ships that didn't necessitate the presence of a Captain or Commander. The rank itself was initially called "Lieutenant Commanding" or "Lieutenant in Command" before it was officially named by the US Navy in the 19th Century. This practice is continued today, with smaller ships like minesweepers and submarines being captained by Lieutenant Commanders.

In science fiction, commanders usually have their traditional position as executive officer. Some works will have commander as the highest senior rank on a starship or a general staff rank, along with the title or rank (or both) of the supreme leader of military forces. A commander who is decidedly uncool may be a commander contrarian.

When using common ranks, is subordinate to colonel badass and superior to majorly awesome. When used as a General Staff Rank, is usually superior to the brigadier and subordinate only to the four-star badass.

 In  In    Batou's rank in his military days, long a subject of debate in the GitS fandom, was finally stated in the  The Director of SHIELD is referred to as Commander.  In the  Commander Roarke in  Commander  The  In  Jack Harper from  Commander William Harper in   In the   Commander Sam Vimes of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch in  Commander Dynamic of the book/comic book series   Commander Peter Raeder and Lieutenant Commander Sarah James, Commonwealth Space Command, from  The first   The highest rank in the Children of the Light in  Commander William Adama of the  Comes up all the time in  Commander Harmon Rabb, Jr. in  Commander Taylor, leader of  Commander Anubis Cruger, of  In season one of  Commander John Crichton of   In season two of  Commander of  "Commander" by Kelly Rowland.

 The rank of Lord Commander in   As stated above,  In  The Space Marine's leader in  In the   Seal Team Six Commander and  In  The Terran's   Commander Heroic in   Clearly why  Cobra Commander in  In  In  Commander Nebula in  In  In  In 