

Lots of fictional families seem to have that one uncle that all the kids just love. Most often, he's a young bachelor who has no intention of settling down any time soon, though he may have a girlfriend. He may travel a lot and wow the kids with stories of meeting celebrities and traveling the world (and if so, he always brings back the coolest souvenirs, which he naturally gives away as presents). Or he may be well-off and spoils his sibling's kids whenever they're together.

Regardless, he will often be secretly be envious of the stability and loving home life that his brother or sister enjoys, even as he boasts of his own independence. The uncle may be the black sheep of the family. If his nieces and nephews ever lose their parent, he's the one who usually steps in to become a parental substitute.

This trope is usually male, but the role will occasionally be taken on by an aunt.

Contrast evil uncle and creepy uncle.

 In a car commercial (forget what brand), a mom & dad drop off their two kids with his brother and tells him "thanks, we really need this," as he has a perplexed look on his face. Cut to the shot of him taking the kids running up and down a big grassy hill, digging in the sand on a beach, then back to the hill. Cut back to the pickup, where the thoroughly exhausted kids are being carried out by the parents, who are remarking how they just can't understand how he always wears them out.

 Main character Yuuta Segawa of  Genjuuro Kazanari from  Asuma Sarutobi from   In the    In  Apollo to Armani in the  Uncle Charlie in   That's how young Simba saw Scar in  Uncle Press in  Walker Boh of the  Joe in  In  Nancy and Peggy's Uncle Jim, also known as "Captain Flint", in the   In Noel Streafeild's  In Marcia Martin's    Jaxon Halsing in  Uncle Flynn the ne'er-do-well gambler in humorist  Sunny's aunt Chinwe is a female version in    Rachel in  Beaver and Wally's way cool, sorta whack Uncle Billy in   Uncle Jesse from   Peter Petrelli from  Uncle Charlie from  Hank Schrader to Walter White Jr. in  Debra Morgan sometimes plays this role in  On  In    Mario Auditore in  In  Based off of the group dynamics in  It was eventually revealed that  Amusingly, the De Santa kids from  Sialeeds Falenas in   Cecil Palmer of  In  Subverted with crazy uncle Duncan in  Rayne in  Uncle Iroh was this to Zuko during his childhood in  In  On  Despite his name, Uncle from  Scrooge McDuck,  Scrappy-Doo thinks of  On    Grunkle Stan from 