Some lawyers are in it for the money. At best, they don't care who you are or what they are represent at court as long as the bill gets paid. At worst, they are amoral attorneys who will do anything to win, regardless of the broader impact and with no concern for what's "right."

And then there is the other kind of lawyer: the Crusading Lawyer. This one is sympathetic to your problems and will help you, though they may need some prodding or screentime before taking your case. Whether suing a mega corp. because they poisoned the water supply or defending a client's innocence in a murder trial, that's the lawyer you want. Money will be a decidedly secondary worry for this type, and if you can't afford a crusader's services, there is always pro bono work In some cases, a Crusading Lawyer becomes a prosecutor who takes on the most hopeless cases so that justice can be served and will never forget that they serve the people, the law, and the victim. (Strangely, they never suffer from burnout.)

In legal dramas, the protagonist usually fits this trope. If you're in a crapsack world or the protagonist is an anti-hero, they may have started as a Crusading Lawyer before turning into the well-intentioned extremist version of an amoral attorney. If the character happens to be "quirky" and an actual lawyer as well, you have a (literal) bunny-ears lawyer. The two tropes aren't mutually exclusive, and a bunny-ears lawyer may turn out to be a Crusading Lawyer underneath the courtroom antics. If the crusader loses and goes beyond the bounds of the law, they've crossed the line and become a version of the well-intentioned extremist or the fundamentalist. This can be permanent, a form of character development (particularly when done in reverse), or temporary.

Compare to good lawyers, good clients. A Crusading Lawyer can appear outside of criminal cases — civil litigation is hugely expensive, so the crusader may decide to fight for a nobody in a police brutality case. In criminal law, crusaders may defend the obviously guilty to uphold the right to a fair trial, if the letters of the law do not fully suit the situation, or because of broader issues related to the case. Depending on where the work in question falls on the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism, it's possible to see two crusaders in head-to-head battle.

    The latest, pre-Comicbook/New52, incarnation of    Edward L. Masry in  Similarly Joe Miller from  Alan Isaacman in  When superheroes were started to be sued and banned by the government in  Like in the comics,  John Travolta's character Jan Schlichtmann in  Ari Josephson in   In the    In     Who can we get on the case? We need     In the first episode of  In How I Met Your Mother we have Marshall Eriksen, a man who seems completely devoted to the idea of saving the planet by becoming an environmental lawyer... Some day.

 Laurel Lance from  Werewolfes born under the Half Moon, called Philodox, in   Celia from   The ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union) is built around this trope. In one instance, the ACLU represented a pedophile — and won — due to the fact that the case hinged on an issue of free speech. They also defend or otherwise work to protect the rights of those harmed by racism, sexism, or over-zealous (or just flat-out corrupt) law enforcement.

 Amnesty International's involvement with major human rights cases also falls under this trope. As with the above, both groups are non-profits, so attorneys working for them are likely making considerably less than they could in other jobs.

 Thurgood Marshall, the great American civil rights lawyer and Supreme Court Justice said that his mentor inspired him with the statement, "A lawyer is either a social engineer or he is a parasite on society."

