A Designated Hero is a character in a story who, despite being presented as heroic, is actually a jerkass at best and an arguable villain at worst. This is not the same as the deliberately morally ambiguous anti-hero. From the praise they receive from other characters and even the narrative, it is plain that the audience is expected to like and root for the Designated Hero; instead, they have problems that can even inspire pity or, on rare occasions, disgust.

They are often mean people with no redeeming qualities aside from some superficial virtues, and they do not undergo appreciable character development. They're generally given a pass by the writers, freeing them from the consequences of their actions.

An extremely common plot associated with this character is their riding the coattails of a misunderstanding or undeserved reward until they finally feel guilty about it — and are allowed to keep it at the end anyway. In so-called 'guy movies', this is sometimes associated with an implausibly attractive woman inexplicably respecting that he came forward with this information and allowing it to wipe away all fault for what he originally did, despite the fact that most reasonable human beings would never want to see him again. But hey, he learned to be a nice guy, right?

Note that values dissonance can sometimes be a factor with this since the exact definition of what constitutes heroism has changed over time; a character that comes across as a Designated Hero to a modern audience might well have been the paragon when the story was written in feudal japan or ancient rome. Of course even in modern society people will have different standards of what constitutes heroism.

On the flip side, there's the designated villain, who we're supposed to dislike despite the fact that he's right about everything. This is often because everything he says gets accompanied by an annoying smirk. Another inversion would be the villain protagonist, who, while presented as the protagonist, is in no way presented as a hero; rather the opposite. (Ironically, a failed attempt at writing a villain protagonist can come off as a Designated Hero, though a work with a sympathetic villain protagonist can use this trope to their advantage by making the hero who opposes them this ). comedy protagonists are usually given a free pass but this can be a result if one of their jokes comes across as offensive to the audience members.

Not to be confused with the chosen one, though they can occasionally overlap. accidental heroes do accomplish heroic things, but not intentionally. If the character is publicly perceived as a Hero, but is still shown to be villainous within the narrative context of the work, then he's a villain with good publicity. For a character who is an utter Jerkass, but still ultimately heroic, see good is not nice. For a morally ambiguous character who is intended to be seen as such by the audience, see antihero and its related subtropes. Can also be related to bitch in sheep's clothing, where a character who seems like a nice person turns out to be a mean person deep down.

Also not to be confused with supporting protagonist, which is when the story just focuses on a character other than the hero. pinball protagonist is for when a character doesn't do much that's "heroic" by dint of the fact that they just don't do much of anything important. Do not confuse with vanilla protagonist which is where the protagonist (not necessarily the hero) is blander than the rest of the main cast so the spotlight can more easily focus on them.

See show, don't tell. Almost always a result of being unintentionally unsympathetic. Such a character might inspire rooting for the empire when the villains are seen as more likable than the main character.

Often, but not always, overlaps with nominal hero, though not on purpose.

Note: in-universe examples or intentional ones go to nominal hero.

