An action girl whose "action" aspect is more of an informed attribute than anything else. She's established from the very beginning as a powerful, capable heroine, but never gets to actually do anything heroic. She has a well-grounded reputation as a strong fighter in her field, but always fails miserably in the line of battle. Her talents and skills are well-known to fellow characters, but for some strange reason they're never seen by the viewers outside of perhaps a day in the limelight episode.

Her status only exists as an established reputation and depends heavily on genre blindness; she never acts like the modern heroine she's supposed to be. Sometimes, the only way she qualifies as anything more than the damsel in distress is if you take our word for it. If the writers are feeling merciful, however, the Faux Action Girl can be relied on to actually defeat her share of mooks - or, in rarer cases, a female enemy.

The key to identifying a Faux Action Girl is the disproportionate hype - whether she's overrated or under-performing. Also note that context does play a role; for example, in a show full of incompetents who think they're tough fighters, it doesn't matter if a female character behaves the same way. It is also possible to have a female character who doesn't fight or isn't as capable as some others for perfectly justified reasons. A Faux Action Girl is much less powerful or competent than comparable male characters and true action girls for no logical reason. Strangely, villainesses are rarely Faux Action Girls.

the worf effect used too many times on a legitimate action girl may turn her into a faux action girl.

Please note that a Faux Action Girl is someone who already has a reputation as a fighter. If she is just a captured girl then she's a damsel in distress. If she gets rid of the distress ball, she's just a badass in distress. If she has just started fighting and doesn't have the experience/fame handy still, she's likely skilled, but naive or a naïve newcomer, and there's still room to see if she can grow into a real action girl or not. Merely because an action girl is captured does not automatically entail her transformation into a Faux Action Girl; generally it is down to the nature of her kidnap/capture and how she deals with this circumstance in contrast to her other informed feats.

The characterization usually involves a form of informed ability: Most of these girls have big reputations and great past exploits. More or less the distaff counterpart to miles gloriosus and fake ultimate hero.

If much of the show's screentime is dedicated to showing the girl in question training and practicing only to lose when it counts, that's not this trope. That's hard work hardly works, and it can hit anyone who is not the hero.

Also contrast with chickification, in which the producers take a character who is shown to be a legitimate action girl and make her incompetent. See also standard female grab area, the standard weakness of a Faux Action Girl, even though showing her drugged while her back is turned would make more sense.

Like the standard female grab area and white magician girl, this trope is often caused by writers who want females in their action show, but are unwilling (or not allowed) to show a woman being hit by a man. In many cases, the Faux Action Girl will suddenly develop into an actual Action Girl when faced with a female opponent (because a cat fight is just fine), only to return to Faux status as soon as that fight is over.

