So it turns out we need to have an article about the First-Person Smartass, and now I have to tell you everything about the type of narrator who's a first-person narrator (because you obviously didn't get that from the name) and describes events in a consistently snarky or sardonic tone. He does this since he knows that, contrary to the popular misconception, narration isn't about letting the reader in on the plot; it's about sharing with them every remotely entertaining half-of-a-train of thought you have.

This guy sometimes shows up in the private eye monologue sort of work, but urban fantasy is where you really can't turn a corner without bumping into a dozen of them. If you want to find one, just cast a fireball in some otherwise normal city and before you're halfway done, some wannabe-protagonist will jump at you from behind a corner and start throwing pithy remarks at you about how you're being cliché and violating the laws of thermodynamics.

Well, fine, that's hyperbole, but you have to admit the guy is an awfully convenient proxy to have around if you're a clever author who wants to show the world how clever you are. Not to mention he can also function as an audience surrogate, incorporating and defusing a reader's skepticism with endless lampshade hanging of whatever bits of the story don't make sense. You can almost feel the enormous weight of the entire story's willing suspension of disbelief on this poor guy's shoulders.

You can expect this guy to be intellectual and well-acquainted with pop culture (or at least works with which the author is familiar), so he can make all the right clever references at the right time. This won't prevent them from being described as uneducated, bad at school, or book dumb; these traits are apparently all the rage for audience surrogates nowadays as people can't identify with someone who might possibly be a better person than they are.

The trope namer was a review of Steven Brust's dragaera series by . And of course you're going to click that, because the "click hither and educate thyself" tone of that sentence just screams "fun."

Compare lemony narrator.

