When a bad guy turns good. This usually makes for a good plot, for three reasons:

 It lets them reintroduce the villain as a  It reinforces a desired notion of the  It prevents the There are even more reasons for the turning:

 An encounter with an  Discovering that  An Realizing that they are a  A  Sadly, it sometimes leads to redemption equals death, and when it doesn't, someone still needs to draw their "get out of jail free" card. Otherwise they may find the good guys unwilling to believe them; their conversion met with a heel face door slam. On the other hand, the bad guy may reject their chance at turning over a new leaf altogether, in which case it's redemption rejection.

The many reasons and the probability for a turn are listed in the sorting algorithm of face heel turning. A very common fate for the lone female character in any evil group. Beware, some authors know the stereotypes of Heel Face Turning and will play with it accordingly.

The term "Heel Face Turn" comes from professional wrestling, in which an evil wrestler (a "heel") sometimes has a change of heart and becomes good, thereby becoming a "babyface". Magazines and other promotional material from the various wrestling leagues comment on various wrestlers' changes in alignment nearly as frequently as they cover events in the ring themselves.

Compare the reverse mole, who is secretly working for the good guys all along. May be the result of a person that was good all along. When someone who doesn't care one way or the other is forced to fight they become neutral no longer.

This is the opposite of a face-heel turn and is generally found in stories with black and white morality. It has two subtropes: heel-face brainwashing, more or less the opposite of brainwashed and crazy, and high heel-face turn. See also mook-face turn when the bad guy doing it is a mook, and heel race turn when an entire faction does it.

In real-life the nature of heel-face turn and face-heel turn is subjective (one person's "seeing the light" is another person's "heartless betrayal" depending on what group the individual is going to or leaving) no real life examples, please!.

            