So, as we've seen, the lifestyle of a hero often isn't that great. One of the many ways heroes can have it rough is the state of their bank account, because as it turns out, heroism won't pay the bills.See, humongous mecha, magic powers and superpowers aren't exactly useful in the workplace (except when they are). As a hero, you are spending time mastering skills which might be world-saving now, but have no marketable value later. Being a triple shifter also isn't exactly conductive to a good conventional education/career. If they're not careful, a hero could well end up a full-time burger fool or working a soul-sucking retail job just to make ends meet.

Furtheremore, when a hero asks dude, where's my reward? everyone thinks he's either joking or being selfish. What if someone really, REALLY needs hospitality for heroes?

There are several ways to avoid this. One way is to be lucky enough to have a one-hour work week. Another is for your civilian identity to be a (seeming) rich idiot with no day job or someone else who doesn't need to work for a living. some jobs are more suitable for a (super)hero, but may not avert this trope entirely. Some more organized and sponsored super teams, or other organizations heroes work for, will pay 'employees' for their heroism; however, some heroes are not cut out for the trappings of working for someone else, and the malevolence or incompetence of the greater organization may make a hero's life difficult in other ways. Thank god for hero insurance, or things might be much worse, eh?

sister trope to the masquerade will kill your dating life- and reed richards is useless, because rarely do superheroes use their epic powers for anything other than combat.

  Chi-Chi in   In  A regular source of angst for  One Donald Duck, Duck Avenger story revolved around the problems he was facing mainly because his equipment cost cash, and he was working for the good of the public. He ends up at first charging the people he rescues, causing his popularity to plummet, then getting endorsed by Scrooge    In  Early into Wally West's  Discussed in the first  Discussed in  In  Invoked in  This comes up in the first season of  Lyta Alexander in  "The Two" by Felt is about two rappers who join forces to fight crime but eventually are forced to stop due to lack of funds.

 In  Despite all of  One arc of  Saitama in  The main characters of  The episode "Daylight Savings" of  In  In  Played with and discussed in the 