When the protagonist of the work is itself some horrific being that sends people screaming in its wake. They might never have been human, or possibly might have been once, but now they are some inexplicable creature that has no place in this world. These Horrifying Heroes not only look frightening, they also have frightening abilities to match, and could just as easily be imagined as a bad guy in nearly any other story. They tend to be an anti-hero, or villains who have had a heel-face turn, however whether they are true heroes or just a villain protagonist they still get to be the effective hero of their story.

Characters which qualify as a Horrifying Hero include the eldritch abomination, cthulhumanoids, humanoid abominations, starfish aliens, a living shadow, a demon and other such things which by their very nature are normally if not obviously evil, then obliviously evil. Characters which appear human part of the time can qualify, but only if their alternate form is such a thing, and is consistently described as nightmare fuel, not just weird or ugly in appearance, and they generally need the powers to match. After revealing the character's true nature, a person would have to be a nightmare fetishist and crazy to boot to find the character appealing.

If there is a question of qualification on the basis of the character being scary but not exactly an eldritch abomination, then the character instead may be a monster adventurer. The differences between them can come down to portrayal. The Monster Adventurer is defined by being ugly or scary. The Horrifying Hero might be ugly and/or scary, but often he will also have frightening abilities. You are meant to feel bad for, and relate to, the Monster Adventurer, while the Horrifying Hero is a bad ass, and might be wish fulfillment.

Subtrope of creepy good, which is when any character on the side of good (not just the hero) is perceived by those around them as creepy.

Tropes which might be associated with a Horrifying Hero include dark is not evil, what measure is a non-human?, what measure is a non-cute?, hunter of his own kind and stages of monster grief. This type of hero is probably more likely than any other to induce a mook horror show.

As for characters which are scary but don't qualify for this trope, you will likely find them under reluctant monster, non-malicious monster or ugly hero, good-looking villain. For characters whose behavior is horrifying, see byronic hero and terror hero.

