The medieval knight who fights baddies, whether knights or dragons, and in the tourney, woos ladies without deliberately seducing them, behaves honorably, and saves the day with his sword; but also, any hero who behaves similarly. Invariably lawful good and honor bound. First appeared in the chivalric romance. Lately has a very high incidence of having a bodyguard crush and rescue romance.

A cultural trope in Europe since medieval times, most good knights practice something called chivalry, honor, and self-control and occasionally chastity. Prone to rescuing the damsel in distress, or delivering her from false accusations, often whilst bearing the lady's favour. The Knight in Shining Armor was a frequent victim of the dulcinea effect: medieval chivalric romances, indeed, portrayed knights who fell in love with a princesse lointaine merely on hearing her described, without even seeing her - though his love and heroism usually won her heart. Another occupational hazard is chronic hero syndrome, knights errant being charged to walk the earth righting wrongs until a worthy quest shows up.

Often invoked to describe a man who acts chivalrously toward women. The term may be used in more cynical works to indicate a wide-eyed idealist. Even the ur example of the straight usage of trope, king arthur, messed around with it a lot. The one-two punch of disney and dungeons & dragons saw this trope's stock rise like crazy.

The "shining" originally referred to the way his armor and weapons were kept in good condition, as opposed to the rust that accumulated for less competent knights. Most knights will be depicted wearing plate, despite its appearing relatively late in the era of knights.

As knights were also humans like any other, they mostly weren't like this, although it would be extremely cynical and most certainly false to say that none of them were like this. It's best to describe it as an ideal to which most knights aspired, at least publicly. True, the average knight was more interested in pig farming than warfare, but the chivalric code defined them as a class.

When prince charming is a Knight in Shining Armor he's the warrior prince. prince charmless, on the other hand would not be a knight by choice.

See lord error-prone and miles gloriosus for common subversions/parodies and knight in sour armor for what happens when the world fails to live up to their standards, but they keep on being good anyway. A knight who is shiny for one person in particular is the champion. A knight that gets magical powers as a reward for this goodness is almost certainly the paladin to boot.

If the Knight in Shining Armor wanders the land seeking evil to slay, then he's also a knight errant.

animated armor will appear as this, all the way to the reveal.

Subtrope to ideal hero. See also shining goodness. Compare the gentleman's old-school chivalry. Compare and contrast the dogged nice guy. white knight is an internet persona who wants to be this.

