The world is filled with idealists who believe in truth and justice and devote their lives to fighting for it. And then the world keeps letting them down. For them, being good sucks. But rather than giving up on their goals, they replace their shiny armor with a full plate of pure cynicism. These characters realize they live in a dark, cruel and brutal world and choose to fight not because they believe they will truly make a difference, but because it's the right thing to do.

More often than not these characters are in settings that feature black and gray morality. They're usually survivors who have largely given up on believing in honor before reason, but still strive to be lawful good or as close to it as reality allows them to be. They are willing to bend the rules to save them. In lighter and softer settings, these characters are grumpy bears and are often mocked by the other characters for being so sour all the time.

The presence of cynicism usually makes the idealistic behavior even more noteworthy: it's easy to love everyone when rousseau was right, but you really have to be a good guy to believe that humans are bastards and care about them anyway. Such characters can also be the fettered; their cynical outlook tells them they could probably get away with all kinds of things that they don't do because that would be wrong, and just because the world sucks doesn't mean you need to make it worse. Then again, this kind of character goes great with a world where you earn your happy ending after much strife.

This is the inverse of the worldview of most well intentioned extremists, especially those who believe that utopia justifies the means. Extremists or knights templar may believe themselves to be this, but their actions are far too extreme. A Knight In Sour Armor believes in the rules and breaks them only when absolutely necessary, which is very rarely; not surprisingly, many have taken a heroic vow related to this behavior. Often has a personal set of rules, trimmed down to those that really matter in order to minimize conflicts and distractions. Contributes to the Knight's gruff tendencies, since politeness tends to appear a lot further down the priority list than feeding orphans and so on.

Generally, these characters fit one of two personality types. Members of the first type are former wide eyed idealists who have come to accept that their world is on the low end of the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism, but who still find something beautiful in their former ideals that they want to hold on to. Those of the second type are born cynics, who would make natural jerk ass antiheroes, but who nevertheless have devoted themselves to a code of honor or fair play. In either case, these people tend to have gone through (often painful) character development in their past, meaning that they are normally older than the average hero.

Either way, however, the effect is basically the same: you have a knight in shining armor wearing jade-colored glasses; the difference between the first and second types is which comes first.

These characters show up often in film noir and in low fantasy. Law enforcement is a particularly attractive career, but the knight in sour armor will usually hold back from becoming a cowboy cop. Very frequently, they end up as the obi-wan, a grumpy bear with jade-colored glasses, the last dj, or a cool old guy if they last long enough. As teammates, they are often the sour supporter. They also frequently end up as hero antagonists and extreme woobies. This is often the final state of the atoner post heel-face turn. Despite their cynicism, they behave like the anti-nihilist. Compare the iron woobie, who takes the troubles of a good alignment with far less complaint, and the noble demon, who will proudly declare himself evil, but still finds himself doing good. Converted silly rabbit, idealism is for kids! or good is old-fashioned believers may well find themselves becoming this trope if the heroes can pull them round. If they don't like idealism but don't like cynicism either then you have a touch of silly rabbit, cynicism is for losers!. Compare jerkass woobie, a character who spits in the face of the alignment chart. Compare the snark knight for the non-action guy variant.

