The character alignment combining the concepts of Order and Goodness.

Lawful Good characters believe that laws exist to further the public good, and that fairness and equality before the law are necessary for good to truly exist. Order is a vital part of good, not for its own end, but because when people act arbitrarily, they will often harm each other, intentionally or unintentionally. Justice is a very important concept to lawful good characters in every sense of the word - that people are treated justly, be it justly rewarded for their services or justly punished for their ill deeds. To a lawful good character, no one is above the rules, not even themselves.

A Lawful Good character believes in the goodness inherent in all beings, in a code of conduct — be it a personal one or a set of laws —, and that an ideal world comes from promoting this dualism of structure and benevolence. Differing interpretations of 'good' may lead a Lawful Good character to become lawful stupid. In most rpgs, it is compulsory for the paladin to be Lawful Good. If they stop being Lawful Good, they run the risk of losing their powers (depending on how far they stray). Likely to take a theoretical approach to the golden rule, with lots of complex rules built around it to clarify how it is to be applied. utopias tend to be composed entirely of good, honest Lawful Good citizens.

The Lawful Good alignment is often thought of as pertaining to the most blatantly good of the good guys, and is commonly stereotyped as such. As alignments are broad categories, this is an oversimplification, but so is the opposite stereotype.

Lawful Good characters tend to come in three deliciously nice flavours:

 Law before Good. Like all Lawful Good characters, they face  Good before Law. The inverse of Type 1. They face the same dilemmas as Type 1, but they are much more likely  Finding The Balance. They face the dilemmas of Type 1 and Type 2, but when it comes to the crunch, they have some problems - how many civilians are there? What are the consequences of the Characters who are Lawful Good but avoid becoming lawful stupid often end up being deliberately contrasted with one or more Lawful Stupid characters to show precisely what Lawful Good ought to mean (in the eyes of the authors).

Alternatively, too much weight on the "Law" side and too little on the "Good" can easily inspire a knight templar, though those tend to be lawful evil. This leads to unceasing debates over whether these people are playing the alignment "right", or whether they should belong to one of the other lawful alignments. Seriously, just check out any given Dungeons & Dragons forum. We're not kidding about "unceasing".

While the key difference between Lawful Good and neutral good is the belief that upholding law/honor/social mores/etc. is required to set a proper example for others or to prevent a philosophical moral dissonance; the key difference between Lawful Good and lawful neutral is the recognition that laws/honor/social mores/etc. exist only to protect the Greater Good, and will consider whether those strict guidelines accomplish their tasks rather than enforcing the rule for the rule's own sake.

See Also: neutral good, chaotic good, lawful neutral, true neutral, chaotic neutral, lawful evil, neutral evil, chaotic evil

If you have a difficulty deciding which alignment a good-aligned character belongs to, remember that the vast majority of characters do not have one clear, constant alignment. Do not attempt to shoehorn characters into an alignment if you can't figure one out for them; if you have any doubts, they probably simply lack a clearly-defined alignment.

The main difference between Lawful Good, Neutral Good and Chaotic Good is not their devotion to good, but the methods they believe are best to promote it:

 Even though there are some situations where they can't always use this method, Lawful Good characters believe the best way is to have a specific, strict code of conduct, whether self-imposed or codified as a law. Their first impulse when making a moral decision is to refer back to this code; those with externally imposed systems (codes of laws, hierarchies, etc.) will try to work within the system when those systems go wrong. Depending on whether they are more Lawful or more Good, they will either refuse to break the code even though it would hurt someone, or else break it only very reluctantly, and only when it would hurt someone if they kept their code. Lawful Good characters have to be very good at   Most     More heroic and sympathetic versions of the           Most heroic versions of  The blue oni in a good  Heroic examples of  Others, such as good is not nice, ideal hero, all-loving hero, small steps hero, knight in sour armor and friend to all living things, can vary between Lawful Good, neutral good, and chaotic good. Generally, a lawful good government is the federation.

Others, such as characters with super ocd and creature of habit, can vary between Lawful Good, lawful neutral and lawful evil