

Who better to solve an 'impossible crime' than someone does the impossible for a living? The Magician Detective is a stage magician who uses his skills with illusion to solve crimes.

It is important to note that the Magician Detective does not have any actual supernatural powers and usually doesn't even believe in the supernatural. It is his disbelief that allows him to look at an 'impossible crime' and realise that there must be a logical explanation and he possesses the skills to work out how it was done.

Not to be confused with the occult detective who has actual magical powers and deals with crimes that truly are supernatural. although it's not impossible for them to overlap... Kaitou Kid from   Blackstone (see Radio examples below) also had a comic series in the late 1940s.

 Harry Houdini    For a time  The title character of the      Naoko Yamada, played by Yukie Nakama, the main character of the Japanese drama  Shawn Spencer from   Rollie Tyler, the special effects expert from   Somewhat in  In the " In  James Randi, aka "The Amazing Randi," was a professional magician before turning his attention to debunking claims of supernatural ability. He has a long-standing $1,000,000 reward set aside for anyone whose abilities withstood his investigation. No one has yet to collect. He is perhaps most famous for exposing Uri Geller as a fraud live on  Harry Houdini is perhaps the patron saint of this trope having a  Penn and Teller, good friends of James Randi, also frequently explain how various supernatural cons such as faith healing and mentalism are performed with sleight of hand and cold reading techniques.

 British illusionist Derren Brown has made several television specials investigating supernatural claims and eventually concluding that they are false; though he tends to leave the audience to decide for themselves what they believe, he will at that point have argued that all the evidence presented to him looks mundane and that he doesn't buy it. In other shows on TV and stage, he replicates precisely the kinds of things charlatans claim to do while explicitly stating that he has no paranormal abilities.

