While the word "messiah" has different meanings in different cultures and there have been dozens of claimants to the title according to wikipedia, for most Western intents and purposes, the term has been hijacked by jesus, with Jesus becoming the trope maker.

In media, the Messianic Archetype is a character whose role in the story (but not necessarily personality) echoes that of Christ. They are portrayed as a savior, whether the thing they are saving is a person, a lot of people or the whole of humanity. They endure a sizable sacrifice as the means of bringing that salvation about for others, a fate they do not deserve up to and including death or a fate worse than death. Other elements may be mixed and matched as required but the Messianic Archetype will include one or more of the following:

 being the  gaining    obvious  a  a  Some takes on what makes a Messianic Archetype include all-loving hero, the dark messiah (the extreme anti-hero version), the antichrist, and the anti-antichrist. However, keep in mind that all-loving hero and the Messianic Archetype are not synonymous. all-loving hero is about a character type with certain personality traits. The Messianic Archetype is about the role the character has in the events of the plot, and can have any personality traits, even overtly villainous ones. Even spawns of The Devil themselves can be Messianic Archetypes (such as the more messianic versions of the anti-antichrist).

It's also not necessary for the archetypal character to be even remotely Christian. The ur examples include Osiris (Egyptian) and Inanna (ancient Mesopotamia and the actual city of Ur) making this trope older than they think.

This trope is the good counterpart to the satanic archetype, which are characters inspired by satan.

See away in a manger for Nativity parallels at an earlier point on the life timeline. Compare pietà plagiarism, crystal dragon jesus. Contrast faux symbolism. See a protagonist shall lead them for the pre-Christian model of "messiah".

When the persistence of this trope causes you to see Messianic Archetypes everywhere, it's everyone is jesus in purgatory.

Remember that while many Messiahs die, this is still , so spoilers should still be marked.



