A character who is, due to their race or ethnicity, a member of a barbaric or savage tribe (or a group simply perceived as such by others), and because of it portrayed as nobler or of higher moral fibre than the norm. (Often regarded as living the good old ways). In American works, the savages in question are quite often American Indians. In European works, native African people tend to be more common. Rare nowadays, except as a sci-fi alien- though it has made something of a comeback with the idea of magical native american people being more in tune with nature than the greedy white people.

older than feudalism — Tacitus wrote of the noble Germanic and Caledonian tribes to contrast with his view of Roman society as decadent and corrupt, and even wrote eloquent roman-style speeches about liberty and honor for "his versions" of calgacus and arminius. The trope has gone in and out of fashion over time, usually contrasting a decadent distrustful "city life" that a thinker feels has tarnished the essentially good nature of humanity. In the USA, the Noble Savage came into style in the mid-1800s, about the time a lot of Western states/territories got their names. This left many geographical features with names of indian (or at least indian-sounding) extraction.

Frequently overlaps with the proud warrior race guy. Easily leads to unfortunate implications, a major one being that any problems a Noble Savage faces is a problem of not living up to an idealized character rather than the simple social implications of the world they live in. Another is that taking this view also tends to distort the actual reality of the Noble Savage in favor of the idealized image.

arcadia brings in the same contrast, with a pastoral (or agricultural) society. The Noble Savage is usually of a different race than the city folks, where the Arcadians are of the same — by whatever definition of "race" is current for them.

Compare with magic negro and ludd was right. Contrast with the hollywood natives, corrupt hick, mighty whitey (although the modern form of Mighty Whitey often co-exists with this trope) and low culture, high tech. Occasionally refers to being "of the people".

See also: closer to earth, barbarian hero, nature hero, and noble space savage. Overlaps with nubile savage (the character's natural ways living by wits and strength have developed his/her body in a way that a softened city dweller never can).

