Fictional heroes tend to be a diverse bunch, but most have one thing in common: a morally positive motivation. Even morally questionable heroes usually are at least partially motivated by a genuine concern for others, desire for justice, belief in playing by the rules, etc.

The Nominal Hero is the exception to this rule. While at least technically on the side of good, their motivations are neutral at best.

So why are they on the side of good? Usually, it's one of the following:

 Annoyance. For these characters,  Boredom. These characters are basically fighting for good because they don't have anything better to do. They don't care if the heroes actually succeed, they just enjoy the adventure. A  Mutual Interest. These characters have selfish reasons to help the heroes succeed. Often, they are characters who would normally be villains, but their future plans are threatened by a mutual enemy. Often an  Relationships. Not every Nominal Hero only cares about themselves. Some Nominal Heroes have a love interest or someone else they do care about. A Nominal Hero might do something heroic to impress or rescue that someone, even though they couldn't care less if other people die.

 Reward. These characters want something in return for their help, such as a share of the treasure, or simply something to look good on their resume. They aren't interested in whether anyone else benefits. The  Force. Some characters become heroes because they literally aren't allowed to be anything else. Maybe they're on an  Lawful examples of this trope, find themselves "stuck" to the good side by a deal, contract or some similar bind, or simply out of a sense of loyalty to the heroes.

 Other motivations. Not all Nominal Heroes need to have a motivation that makes any sense to others. They might be a This type of hero is rarely averse to working alone, with other heroes. On a team of otherwise conventional heroes, they'll often be in an enemy mine, sociopathic hero, or token evil teammate role. Other heroes may only work with them because they could use all the help they can get, or specifically to keep an eye on the hero-in-name-only, so that they don't become a more serious threat.

In terms of sympathy, Most of Nominal hero's examples are noble demons.

Many other tropes about questionable heroes can overlap with Nominal Hero, but most are not true subtropes:

 An Note: This is for In-Universe characterization. Subjective/audience reaction interpretations go in designated hero.

