Most great fictional heroes fall into one of two broad categories: the ideal hero, such as the cape or a knight in shining armor who is pretty much exactly what one would hope for in a hero - skilled, courageous, morally pure, etc., and the anti-hero, who lacks one or more qualities normally considered necessary for an ideal hero. For example, a classical anti-hero lacks ability or self-confidence. A knight in sour armor lacks a positive attitude, and a nominal hero lacks morally pure intentions.

A Pragmatic Hero lacks the "moral cleanliness" of an ideal hero. When fighting evil, they often commit acts that might seem more characteristic of a villain than a hero. However, Pragmatic Heroes have morally good intentions and often hold themselves to strict moral standards—it's just that those standards aren't always what others might expect from a hero. This type of hero tends to be much more concerned with whatever heroic business the plotline has assigned them than the niceties of proper heroic etiquette. However, with the exception of unintentional mistakes, they will rarely if ever commit a villainous deed that doesn't further the cause of good in a way.

This character is one step further toward the dark side of the anti-hero from the knight in sour armor. Wheras the knight in sour armor complains but does the right thing anyway, the Pragmatic Hero is more about doing the right thing whether anyone likes it or not, and will shove aside more idealistic heroes who give them a what the hell, hero? moment.

At the end of the day, their justification is typically i did what i had to do, they love giving "the reason you suck" speech to a poor wide-eyed idealist, and they might evolve into cynical mentors. However, they will never say "silly rabbit, idealism is for kids!". Deep down, they want the best for others, and this character may have shades of chronic hero syndrome as he/she will often be the one to defend a captured minion or fallen hero. Being pragmatic, they also have both the flaws and strengths a more passionate hero lacks, so are less likely to let personal intentions get in the way of their job. In this sense a Pragmatic Hero contrasts a blood knight or he who fights monsters. Compare/Contrast good is not nice if the good ends will have to be met through not-nice means.

