

A basic plot that most likely originated with the story of moses. It involves a character living in the lap of luxury, when suddenly he's forced to run away from home, usually due to murdering someone on accident (though sometimes the character is just sick of the people where he lives). The character exiles himself, and goes on to live a carefree life without much responsibility. That is, however, until their past comes back to bite them in the butt, and they are forced to return to their old home and save the day, usually by saving his people from either their evil rulers or a new evil that has come in his absence.

This story is usually an aesop on growing up, facing the past, and taking responsibility, and goes to show the protagonist transforming from someone who once ran away from his past returning to confront it. The original decision to leave may come from the realization that they were moses in the bullrushes.

This is an element of the traditional "hero's journey" (in literary classes you learn that the first step in the stereotypical "heroic arc" is the "refusal of the call"). Perhaps an incorporation of the hero's journey's stages as subtroupes with some of the common subversions (such as jumped at the call).

Usually results in rightful king returns if the protagonist was royalty, or a protagonist shall lead them if they were not. Related to charlie brown from outta town, if the hero comes under a different (albeit similar) identity and costume. Compare / contrast achilles in his tent, refusal of the call.

Note that "prodigal" means "wasteful"; the correct definition is used in the biblical parable, but the word has come to be associated with exile and return.

 Piccolo from  Lelouch from   This was essentially  The story of     In  As the related trope of    Galadriel in  Dawn from  Jason was sent to train with Chiron when his  According to the story, a pampered Indian prince one day saw suffering in the world (hunger, sickness, and death) for the first time (he was sheltered from it all his life). So he left the palace to seek an answer as to why people suffer. What he realized would later become the foundation of Buddhisim.

 Dart in  In   In the video game  CJ from  Zuko of 