There you have it, a rebellion has been mounted against the oppressive nation. As long as people are mounting up, people will sure come and join the resistance. But wait, why is that nosy little kid complaining about the rebellion? Meet the rebellious rebel.

This character is the kind of person who sees the faults in a rebellion, whether it be that the rebels are no better than the oppressors themselves, or that they were wrong in rebelling from the beginning. He breaks off from the already existing rebellion to act against said rebellion. Often, but not always, this means appealing to their original superiors from the faction the rebellion acted against from the beginning, reasoning that the rebellion was unjustified from the beginning. Others start their own resistance, fighting against both the empire and the original rebellion, knowing that the empire deserved to be brought to justice, but also that the methods of the original resistance cannot be justified either.

this is usually triggered by some kind of immoral action of the rebel leader who defected in the first place. Either by character development or just revealed to be a real bastard beneath his nice demeanor, he will end up having some sort of kick the dog moment to make the rebellious rebel call this out to the leader and leave the rebellion, or depending on the setting, get killed for wronging their superiors.

Usually found in military situations, but not always. Compare anti-mutiny, where the leader is disloyal and his subordinates arrest him for it, and the last dj, whose conflicts with his superiors are chronic, who has no superior to his superiors he could appeal to, but generally faces nothing worse than reassigned to antarctica. Contrast dangerous deserter.

By the way, this is more or less the definition of antidisestablishmentarianism; those against those against the establishment of a state religion, but not necessarily associated with the government itself.

See also anti anti christ, enemy civil war, divided we fall; this trope clearly pits a hero against a villain. Compare white sheep.

