Whether it's the ditz, the fool, inspector oblivious, or a monkey, this miscreant is capable of derailing the most ironclad plan by unknowingly taking a third option. They ruin the implausible gambit roulettes by exploiting their one, intrinsic flaw: their reliance on contrived coincidences, rigid patterns, and the assumption that nobody would be stupid enough to actually push the big red button or fight the apparently unstoppable robot.

How can they outdo the master at his own game with nothing but stupidity and clumsiness? It's precisely because these characters are the fools and tools of fate that they are uniquely placed to derail these schemes with the gentleness of a butterfly flapping its wings...of doom!Put another way, they are an author's walking deconstruction or lampshade hanging of the theory of narrative causality: just as easily as a plot can come together it can be pulled apart with the tiniest, most ridiculous things.When the character ruins the protagonists' plans by unknowingly doing something small but crucial, he becomes an unwitting instigator of doom. When the Spanner can trigger a series of coincidences, it's disaster dominoes. When the plan is screwed and the character is also aware that he will screw the plan, and doesn't care, he becomes a leeroy jenkins. Occasionally, may be mistaken for badass. If the focus isn't on them, they're often an unknown character.

Compare it began with a twist of fate, nice job fixing it, villain, outside-context villain, remembered too late.

Opposite of the unwitting pawn, often is the unwitting pawn until the final crucial moment. This is the main cause of didn't see that coming, this trope being the "that". Inverse of unintentional backup plan, where a character accidentally completes an imperfect plan that would have otherwise failed. Compare with out-gambitted, where someone's plan is successful but ineffective against a better-thought-out plan. Compare too dumb to fool, where the character is too stupid even to be baffled by explanations. Also, compare evil cannot comprehend good, where the flaw is that the villain can't see someone being generous or brave or honest enough to foul up his plan.

Specialty of the fool. See also didn't see that coming, the dog bites back, who's laughing now?The trope is reputedly named for the industrial revolution-era practice of disgruntled workers throwing a spanner into a machine, either because of fears machines would put them out of work, or as a bargaining chip for better working conditions (and often because they were the only ones who knew how to repair the machines as well).

(Note for Americans reading this: "Spanner" is the Queen's English word for what you would call a "wrench", with the added benefit of it being slang for a stupid person. The equivalent American phrase specifically involves a monkey wrench, known in the UK as a gas grip — "He really threw a monkey wrench into my plan.")

Often an ending trope, spoilers may be ahead.