After all, there's a fist in every pacifist.If you live in an action-adventure show-universe (or perhaps a videogame), violence is one of those things that you just can't escape. This can be a real problem if you want your leading man to be a new-agey tree-hugging intellectual, because, now that hunter s. thompson is dead, how many gun-toting hippies do you know?

So you end up with the Technical Pacifist. The Technical Pacifist is willing to beat people up as much as he wants. He may even get a few fatalities through the fridge. However, once it comes down to a choice between killing the villain and not, the Technical Pacifist will not kill the villain.

Unlike the principle of thou shalt not kill, the Technical Pacifist is certainly capable of making the killing strike if there was no other way, but he doesn't ever treat it lightly. In a certain variation he may be perfectly fine with the self-disposing villain who is too dumb to live being defeated because of his own villain ball or being hoist by his own petard; so long as he doesn't personally pull the trigger or push them off the building, everything is fine. A murder by inaction may also be fine. But of course, since fans expect the good guys to pick up the hero ball whenever possible, if the hero is capable of saving the bad guy then he is expected to save the bad guy.

Sometimes, a Technical Pacifist may have an aversion to certain weapons due to their lethality (most often guns), preferring to fight with his fists and other blunt weapons that are less likely to kill someone. Other times, he employs swords or even bullets in ways designed to subdue his opponents in a non-lethal manner. Not only that but most other rules regarding thou shalt not kill are usually thrown out the window in the case of dealing with aliens, robots, zombies and/or monsters. good is not soft is not an unusual trait for this character.

There is a villainous variant of the Technical Pacifist, often seen with the corrupt corporate executive and the worthy opponent. In the former case, this is a big bad who has no qualms about killing people, but doesn't like to get his hands dirty (or at least to be seen getting his hands dirty). So he has someone else do it instead. This invariably leads to the hero being locked in an Easily Escapable deathtrap so that the villain won't get bloodstains on his suit. This tends to drop away when he's backed into a corner. In the latter case, the worthy opponent just refuses to use a gun because it's "not fair".

Can result in fridge logic, especially when this is executed by stretching never say "die" and could have been messy beyond willing suspension of disbelief's outer limits.

See also family-friendly firearms and improbable weapon user. See also martial pacifist, for the martial arts expert who follows The Path of Peace.

Contrast actual pacifist for somebody who genuinely doesn't hurt people, instead of hurting them less, and reckless pacifist for someone who refuses to kill, ever, but comes frighteningly close to doing so. Compare reluctant warrior, who despite not wanting to fight, does fight and kills, much to their own regret.

doesn't like guns is a subtrope, where hurting and killing is OK, as long as he doesn't use a gun to do it.

