There is a common misconception that the use of fear and terror against one's enemies is a cowardly, evil method of fighting. not to these characters. To them, targeting a foe's psyche is every bit as valid a tactic as more direct methods. To do this, they prey upon a villain's fears, attempting to break them, thus making them easy prey. Often times, said character is either an anti-hero or someone who's a more clear cut hero but isn't particularly nice, who uses these tactics as a way of turning fear on those who prey upon the fearful. Can be a very effective weapon for those with a no-kill code. Alternatively, a hero could just as easily exploit their frightening reputation as a means of scaring someone into submission. The terror hero (except The Dreaded) typically tries to avoid direct combat unless no other options are present. In order to count (except The Dreaded), the use of fear and morale breaking must be a standard tactic rather than something used once in a while.

There are five types of this kind of hero.

     In terms of gameplay, characters who use fear are typically rogues or spell casters with specialization in illusions. Warrior types are typically limited to the use Warrior Therapy, Intimidation, and Dread. Note also that any of the other types can eventually evolve into The Dreaded if given enough time and myth-making.

It should be noted that the origins of the misconception stem from the many hideously evil acts committed upon innocent people in the name of terror tactics (think rampaging maruaders, terrorists, and the like) as opposed to the restrained, targeted tactics used by honest cops and soldiers. Alas, the evil cases are the ones that get all the press.

Associated with bad powers, good people. A common tactic when dark is not evil. Related to in-universe nightmare fuel for obvious reasons. Often causes a mook horror show. Can lead to moral dissonance if used poorly. Compare and contrast with the horrifying hero, who's horrifying to look at as opposed to the Terror Hero who is typically normal looking but uses tactics designed to turn their foes into blubbering, terrified wrecks. Related to the guile hero who uses trickery, cunning, and misdirection to defeat his foes. Heroic counterpart to the dreaded. the cowl is a sub trope dealing with a specific scare tactic.

