This species has seldom been seen and naturalists have considered putting it on the endangered species list. He is marked by his love of baseball, by having a skill with rural machinery and hunting firearms beyond his years, and his propensity to emit sounds like "gee whiz". The All-American boy usually dwells in a quirky town in the heart of eagleland within which he is as free as the air, pedaling everywhere on his bicycle. He is naive but charming and always polite, and he treats his parents (who most likely are a standard '50s father and a house wife) and other elders with respect. He is probably a boy scout (or a Cub Scout if still in elementary school). If he has a sibling, it will be an older brother to idolize or a little sister to protect — perhaps both.

There are variants of this trope. The geeky variant is similarly characterized by ingenuity, self-reliance, and wholesomeness, but he applies his interest to at-home science experiments and the like. The high-school variety wears a letterman's sweater, plays football or baseball, and spends his off hours using his mechanical skills to restore an old car.

An All-American boy often gets a job as a kid detective. If he joins the military when he grows up he will almost inevitably become a southern-fried private.

The closest distaff counterpart would probably be girl next door.

 Used in some commercials for Smuckers jams and jellies. Typically feature young boys (apparently the guys who would later found the company) on bicycles riding through orchards and playing together during  Ditto for the Blue Bell Ice Cream commercials, especially the radio variety.

  Steve Rogers (aka  Archie Andrews of  If  Audie Murphy in the beginning of  The title character in    The    A pair of  Jeff and the "four horsemen" in  Some of  Henry Huggins in the  Galen Waylock in  Billy Coleman in  Theodore "Beaver" Cleaver, from  Opie Taylor and his pals on  Cory Matthews of   Jack Armstrong, the All-American Boy.

 Biff in   Ninten from  Mike Jones, teenaged ace pitcher from    According to  Hank and Dean Venture of  Davey Hansen in  Orel Puppington of  Ralphie Tennelli from  Hank Hill of  Institutionally invoked by the Boy Scouts of America.

 