Once, they were a major villain. They did every crime one could think of, and did it with a song in their heart and a skip in their step. Then, something happened. The Atoner has realized the error of their ways, possibly wants to make amends, and have decided that they will do so via heroic deeds. simply going to jail won't do, because this isn't always applicable to their "sin." Besides, they have all these amazing skills from being a villain that would be wasted, and they can do more good out there.

The problem is, they often have to wrestle with going back to their old self, along with the massive guilt built up over years of carefree evil. Also, said previous villain skills usually involve killing people in very messy ways, which can result in karmically harmful situations. Other times their evil side won't go down without a fight, and manifests itself as a superpowered evil side. Ultimately, it comes down to the fact that no amount of babies saved will make up for killing people in the past. The Atoner usually realizes that "Redemption is the path, not the destination" and continues for the rest of their life.

Sometimes 'the rest of their life' is short because redemption equals death. Generally the only Atoners who avoid this are main characters who are already in the atoning stage by the series' start. Atoners often end up as knights in sour armor. Those who believe redemption inherently equals death may well become death seekers.

A subtrope of this is "assassin wants to quit." Stories involving them allow us to cheer on the assassin as they battle their former employers using the same murderous skills they honed during their previous career. Atoners sometimes go on a redemption quest in order to atone. If their deed of atonement is especially painful, it may overlap with the penance.

Would-be Atoners who are not sincere are trying to buy them off. Not to be confused with the aloner, though they can both coincide if the character is trying to atone for killing off everyone else on the planet. The Atoner may face rejection and hatred from those who don't believe he's reformed, which is reformed, but rejected, and more importantly, he must be careful not to run into the heel face door slam. In some instances, however, there are characters who will acknowledge The Atoner's change of heart, but do so in a grudging manner. The Atoner must also beware of one character who actively seeks to end his path to redemption.Genuine atoners have a high chance of becoming the woobie, especially if they were an anti-villain in the first place. See also, be all my sins remembered, where they continue to suffer a guilt complex over their past misdeeds. Contrast with my greatest failure - instead of a formerly evil character turning from their past, a good character feels the need to atone for not preventing a bad outcome (regardless of whether they could have changed anything). The Atoner may have experienced go and sin no more.

