The powerhouse of the five-man band. They are usually incredibly and unflinchingly loyal, and often they are the largest member and even more effective in combat than anyone else. (Sometimes combined.) They will often be the point man, they cause a disturbance and hold off the mooks while the others challenge the big bad. Of course, against stronger enemies they might end up suffering the worf effect; getting trounced to set up the villain as a credible threat.

Usually what holds them back from leadership is being dumb muscle, they know how to knock heads together but don't do much in the way of strategy. While the leader and the lancer fight side-by-side, The Big Guy is a one-man army.

Note: The Big Guy may not necessarily be the strongest in the team. They just have to be the one who, out of most duties, specializes in physical fighting.

the big guy on the five-man band can be subdivided into five classes:

 Class 1: The gruff, mean, scarred and withdrawn warrior. Could go so far as to be a  Class 2: The  Class 3: The kind that looks like the first but is  Class 4: The  Class 5: A Powers and skills common to the big guy are:  Most Big Guys  Others are  If it's a magical setting, they may also be adept at This bandmate is rarely a woman, unless the whole team is women. The Big Girl can be classified into three subspecies:

 The  Alternatively and more unusually, she's a Giantess, and thus plainly strong. She's rarely masculine but rarely conventionally attractive. (There's also nothing stopping her from being a robot, mutant, alien, etc. It's just that the surprise is gone.)

 Somewhat more rare is the Amazon: She's When there are two girls to a team, the Big Girl and the chick commonly form a tomboy and girly girl pair. Most of the time, the Big Girl is the tomboy and the Chick is the girly girl. However, there is nothing preventing the Big Girl from being more of a girly bruiser or lady of war, or a tomboy from being the heart of the team.

An exuberant Big Girl is either a boisterous bruiser or genki girl. If she's instead a jerk with a heart of gold, her softer side is often a secret cache of feminine traits or one particularly girlish habit, which may make her embarrassed when found out. On rare occasions, she may be revealed to be a butch lesbian, a tsundere, or even a violently protective girlfriend.

Besides gender, the most common way to subvert the trope is when the Big Guy is actually physically short, slim, or unimposing - and yet his strength comes with raw determination or intensity. (Or possibly supernatural means). The Big Guy doesn't need to be physically large — if there's a dwarf on the team, he'll usually take the role of the Big Guy.

The five-bad band's evil counterpart is the brute. Not to be confused with that other big guy.

Can have some overlap with scary black man and the proud warrior race guy. Often a victim of big guy fatality syndrome.

     