The superhero as an ideally good person. Generally associated with older protagonists, before whenever the latest round of deconstruction happened, and often invokes elements of the messianic archetype. Has now become nigh-synonymous with the "classic" super hero.

Capes don't need to actually wear capes, although a distinct outfit and some kind of special ability is part of the image. The most important feature is these heroes adhere to a strict code of honor and sense of authority; capes can be notoriously inflexible and perceive things in black and white, and even be painfully straightforward and selfless. They often downplay their own heroism and will act heroically even when no one will know. They almost universally subscribe to thou shalt not kill. Capes usually have secret identities, but make public appearances in costume and actively try to keep a good public image.

One major reason for this is it serves as self-imposed safety to keep them from abusing their powers. Most Capes have evil counterparts who do whatever they want and eventually devolve into villains. A second is to set an example for others to follow, as in the page quote and image quote.

Capes are usually born with their powers, or get them in a unique fashion (or are given them to act as champions of good). Though this is not absolutely necessary; its the mindset (or self-preception) that's critical.

Capes are contrasted with the past two decades' emergence of vigilantes and anti heroes who have become more extreme (sometimes to ludicrous effect), mainly as a response to the perception of comic books as "kid stuff." Nearly all super hero series eventually address the idea that Capes and badass normals have unspoken issues: Capes can impose their morality because they have the power to back them up. In a setting where these two types of heroes coexist, The Cape usually considers the latter to be unstable, amoral smug supers. In more cynical universes, the smug super might consider himself to be a Cape, but very much isn't.

If they do have powers, expect a flying brick.

This trope is named, appropriately enough, for oliver queen's term for certain superheroes, as opposed to badass normals who live otherwise relatively mundane lives.

See superheroes wear capes for the actual wearing of capes.

sub-trope to ideal hero.

Compare the knight in shining armor (the medieval version of this character), captain patriotic, the paragon.

Contrast nineties anti-hero.

Compare and contrast with the cowl.

If you're looking for nbc's cancelled series of the same name, go here.

