Responsibility, honor, and justice. The Fettered believe in these ideals and willingly bind themselves to them, and in so doing draw strength to face whatever challenges arise. When their morals, values, and loved ones are put in danger, they rise to defend them with heroic resolve.

It's common for a Fettered character to be a police officer, paladin, soldier, or other law enforcement/martial profession focused on bringing peace and justice to the world, but they can just as easily be a pacifist whose code forbids them from fighting. The latter will have a hell of a time with this. In ensembles, they are often the hero who rallies their allies with the strength of their conviction and vision. One thing all fettered characters share is that they can often motivate others by virtue of their ideals. In fact, the messianic archetype is almost always The Fettered. Choice and freedom are an important aspect of a Fettered character; while they freely choose to adhere to a code, the temptation to desert it is always present, but placing their trust in these ideals serves to give them and others strength to stand firm.

Choosing to live by these ideals is never easy, and it has tangible drawbacks. If they put their faith in an unsound moral code, or obedience in an authority that is less morally upright than they, there will be a reckoning where they must choose to be lawful or good. If they don't, or choose wrongly, then they'll suffer a heroic bsod and turn into a fallen hero. The moral code itself usually really compromises their ability to deal with threats permanently, with things like thou shalt not kill, or being obliged to help the helpless when a more pragmatic attitude could save more total lives. Heroes who are aware of this may take it to the extreme and develop samaritan syndrome, or grow despondent when being good sucks. A danger many Fettered face is the poisonous friend, who takes up the "task" of protecting the fettered from hard choices. Only rarely will The Fettered be clever or flexible enough to use a zeroth law rebellion and take a third option, as most think too rigidly to consider such "rules lawyering" as honorable.

Fettered people aren't always good guys. Some blood knights, most noble demons, ubermenschen, most knight templars, some lawful evil villains, and even sociopaths adhering to a code can be Fettered as well. This trope is less about morality than about following a code strictly and drawing strength from it.

The Fettered is the counterpoint to the unfettered; both share similar insane levels of willpower and inner strength, but have radically different world views. An exercise to the reader is whether the übermensch is Fettered or Unfettered, which will give one an excellent idea of where a work stands on a certain sliding scale — if the Unfettered is the übermensch, then the work is much more likely to be Cynical. If the Fettered is the übermensch, then the work is most likely Idealist. If both are the übermensch, the scale breaks.

It should be noted that unlike the Unfettered, the Fettered can become embodiments of an ideal (Except perhaps for Freedom) if their moral strength is strong enough. This in turn can lend strength to those who follow their cause and help fight despair. Still, beware the broken pedestal.

The Fettered character's greatest strength is also his greatest weakness. The minute someone devotes himself absolutely to an idea or moral code or what have you, anyone who knows about said devotion can use it against him and try to force them to break their vows.The values held by the fettered, if taken freely, may constitute a heroic vow.

Common characters who are fettered: many determinators (if not the unfettered), knight in sour armor, officer and a gentleman, noble demon, the stoic, all-loving hero, card-carrying villain, the snark knight, and honor before reason. Contrast blind obedience, which may seem like being fettered but lacks the necessary self-awareness. The principles zealot is when being the Fettered has gone horribly right.

