This guy is a hero, pure and simple. He's almost always right, is a friend to all his teammates, and morally superior. He has a well-rounded skill set. He's not as strong as the big guy, or as smart as the smart guy, or as sensitive and socially adept as the chick, but he's close. He can personally accomplish a variety of goals, but his real superpower is getting the whole diverse set of personalities to focus and pull together. He'll always know who to ask for help, and when — and usually how.

Most often, he will be the protagonist but there are exceptions to this rule. Just as often he will be the leader or otherwise the shining star that holds the ragtag bunch of misfits together, but there are exceptions to this as well. In a team lineup they will be front and center.

Other powers and skills common to the hero include:

 In many games or settings, he'll be  Most of the time, he'll use a  In a fight,  He will wear either almost invariably, the chick is in love with him (unless she's The Hero or his sister and sometimes even then), as are any other members who happen to be women or gay or bi.

The primary romantic plot in the team will be between The Hero and the chick, with the lancer rounding out a triangle. (Bonus points if the lancer is bisexual and is interested in both of them!) The Hero might also be a chaste hero or a celibate hero as an additional complication to romantic subplots.

If the Hero has too much of the "positive" qualities listed above, he may degenerate into a marty stu. If he's too generic, then he's an every man. They are sometimes the only sane man trying to keep the team together because they live in dysfunction junction.

The Hero and the lancer usually have a special chemistry within the team, either a bash brothers relationship or red oni, blue oni. They are often rivals with a strong mutual respect for each other, and are sometimes heterosexual life-partners. They are likely to argue about who is the leader, but as stated above, this role usually goes to the hero.

Traditionally, this role will not be filled by a woman unless all the other roles are already women (as is often the case in anime). If so, there might not be a chick in the group although there might be the one guy.

The Hero does not HAVE to be the leader, or the most intelligent. This is usually justified by him being the youngest, most inexperienced, and/or newest member of the team. Thus, his more senior teammates may reasonably see him as the tagalong kid or the sixth ranger, even if he's clearly the central protagonist to the audience. He may even be something of the load if he's a mouthy kid or the fool, but don't worry - in time, he will reveal his great potential, eventually swaying friend and foe alike to his cause. Even if he needs significant growing up to reach that point. Eventually, the leader he may very well become.

If there's a character cooler than the Hero, that character is generally too cool to live.

See also the ace, the kirk, messianic archetype, the chosen one, and hero protagonist. A superhero is, by the catch-all definition, a hero (often with superpowers) who dedicates their very life to... well, being a hero.

Note: It is important to remember that while the hero is usually also the protagonist, they are not necessarily one and the same. Whereas the hero is defined by the character traits described above, the protagonist is defined by their central role in the story. In Star Wars, for instance, Luke Skywalker is an archetypical example of The Hero and is more or less the main character of the original trilogy, but the prequel trilogy establishes the more antiheroic anakin skywalker as the protagonist of the film series as a whole, even though he is a villain for more than half of the saga. See supporting protagonist for instances in which this is the case.

   