This is a character type with a lot of integrity. His skills at what he does has made him something of a legend, often greatly admired by those who work beneath or alongside him. He refuses to just go along with what his bosses or administration want. Unfortunately, because he doesn't play by the rules of office politics, and because house politics here promote blind obedience, his superiors have blacklisted him and made his career stall out at a certain point. This results in a tense situation where management may be actively looking to get rid of him but can't because of his reputation, while he wants to either just do his thing or make changes to the existing system.

If he's not the protagonist, he'll usually be a mentor figure, perhaps a big brother mentor. Alternatively, in stories on the cynical side of the scale he can serve as a warning of what happens if you're not willing to make compromises. A natural enemy to and the bane of the obstructive bureaucrat.

The Last DJ can become the almighty janitor, though not always. If the bosses really get sick of his honor before reason attitude, he may be threatened with or actually have to endure being reassigned to antarctica for his stubbornness.

Compare rebellious rebel, whose conflicts with his superior are acute, not chronic, and who rapidly ends up dead or fleeing.

Contrast limited advancement opportunities, where characters never advance in their position because that would force the writing team to separate the cast. The exact opposite of kicked upstairs, where an unwanted and incompetent person is promoted, to get them away from the real work so they can no longer screw things up. See also bothering by the book and screw the money, i have rules!. Also compare bunny-ears lawyer, where the traits that would hold back a Last DJ get overlooked on account of how much of an asset the character is otherwise. Also, the traits in a Bunny Ears Lawyer are mostly just quirks and eccentricities that may be self indulgent as opposed to the Last DJ who is more likely to feel like he's the only sane man. Will very frequently overlap with knight in sour armor. Music wise it overlaps with music is politics.

Examples: