The foil for a hero of the closely allied variety.

In general, the Lancer will often (though not always) form one half of a red oni, blue oni contrasting duo with the Hero. Specific ways this can manifest include:

 If  If  If  The  If  If This is the member of the five-man band who is most likely to not be a team player. He's the one who sneaks off on his own to advance the team's goals independently. He might be jealous of the leader, with an attitude of "Why can't I be the leader?" When he finally gets his chance he may well find himself asking himself, "Now what would the hero do?"

If the complainer is always wrong and there's a chronic complainer to act as the show's butt monkey, it's likely this guy. He's also the one most likely on the team to go turncoat, and the last one the hero will suspect. Conversely, if the rest of the members turn their backs on the hero for some reason, the Lancer may be the only one who sticks by his side. the hero and The Lancer may also be rivals for a love interest, or one of them will have a cute sister whom the other crushes on, only to have the brother say "my sister is off-limits!!" Sometimes the hero and the Lancer may be love interests to each other.

In the event that the leader of the team is unable to lead, The Lancer steps in; unless of course the number two is someone else in the group. Sometimes, he's forced to take the position against his will. Either way, this plot is used to contrast the leader's leadership style against what the lancer's would be. A frequent ending for this plot is for The Lancer to gladly give up the reins of power while the leader often notes that the team will be in excellent hands the next time he is absent.

Powers and skills common to The Lancer include:

 Just as  If  Since he's the hero's  Conversely, The Lancer on a When worst comes to worst, The Lancer is the one person on the team who is likely to die for the cause. He's also the most likely member of the team to pull a face-heel turn and get turned to the dark side (though this usually doesn't last), or end up brainwashed and crazy by the big bad or the evil genius (and if this happens, either the chick or the hero will talk him out of it).

Conversely, if a hero team has a number two already that fails to act as a foil for the hero, then the lancer can be a redeemed dragon (the five-bad band's evil counterpart) who has turned away from his evil ways through his interactions with the party.

Originally always male, female lancers have become more common. They are either merged with, or contrasted with, the chick. Having the character who is both most like and most unlike the hero also being the strongest woman can create ust. She may be in a love triangle, acting as the veronica to the chick's betty in pursuit of the object of her secret desire, the hero. A female Lancer and the chick may develop into an odd couple and work as a sub-team. A former dark magical girl often becomes the Lancer after her heel-face turn to her magical girl counterpart.

This trope is named for the man-at-arms of the middle ages, the term for a professional soldier. While the term also encompasses the members of the knightly class, a man-at-arms was not necessarily a knight. They were also men of lesser financial and social status than knights, but were equally trained and equipped to fight on horseback in full armour and with sword and lance, just like their social superiors. In this regard, he is most recognizable as king arthur's right-hand man, Kay, who was the greatest warrior of Arthur in source Welsh legends (and who was later demoted to plucky comic relief) - either way, as a constant foil for our noble hero, he fits this trope to the letter.

     