

The Wise Prince is an example of the non evil aristocrat. He's kind, honorable and well-intentioned, but with an aura of sadness and melancholy surrounding him. His biggest priority is the protection of his people, and, unlike the pampered sheltered aristocrat, fully understands the hardship of an unprivileged life. He is usually a good warrior, but doesn't like fighting.

He's often short of being an all-loving hero, but doesn't always live in the right sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism for it. If he doesn't, his disillusioned gallantry can be just as poignant.

You'd think he'd make a perfect leader for his people, of course, but fate is particularly skilled at screwing him over in some way or another. If he does reign he feels his responsibilities perhaps too keenly.He might start out being the rebel prince or sheltered aristocrat. the evil prince is his opposite (and sometimes his brother). See also the woman wearing the queenly mask.

Often the son of the fisher king, who has gone away and left his people in disarray. Unlike other aristocrats, the Wise Prince must typically journey somewhere, which will hopefully culminate in the rightful king returns. If successful, expect the Wise Prince to rule long and happily as the good king.

In terms of the ranks of authority tropes, the tropes that are equal are the evil prince, prince charming, prince charmless, warrior prince, and all princess tropes. The next steps down are the caligula, the good chancellor, standard royal court and deadly decadent court. The next steps up are the good king, god save us from the queen!, the high queen, and the woman wearing the queenly mask.

 Ashitaka in  Shouryuu in  Hotohori from  Mytho from  Prince Kail from  The  Prince Sagum of   Kuchiki Byakuya from   Female example: Princess Zelda fits most aspects of the trope in some installments of the  Post-  Shi Ryuuki from  Joshua Grant, heir to the throne of Loreto, in  Despite being  The dwarven noble protagonist in  Similarly to the above example, Elissa Cousland in  Ahkmenrah from   Gwydion from  Lir from  Prince Tryffin in  Andovan in Celia Friedman's  Fitzchivalry's father Chivalry in  Kings Caspian and Tirian in  Targaryen rulers in  Cuneglas in  Cei in    Prince Ragoth, youngest son of the Taysan Empress in the  Faramir in  Prince Edward the Black Prince of England is portrayed this way in the  Prince Josua Lackhand from  Highprince Dalinar Kholin in  Felin from  Terem Rathai from  Prince/King Helmos from the  Prince/King Gar from  Prince Arutha of Krondor from  Pietro Della Rocca from Alain Damasio's  Almost every single good noble in   Rand al'Thor in   Prince Raschid in the furry novel  King Randale in the  Prince Eneas of Syan from  Marie Antoinette in  Jack's (dead) twinner in  Prince Maxon in  Hector is the  A female version occurs in  The 2012 BBC version of  Most main Characters  Prince Yumil from  Prince  Prince (later King) Garr/Woodrow Kelvin of  Ky Kiske from  Prince Rurik of Ascalon in  Female example with the titular princess from  Price Roland from  Though not a prince, Admiral Carth Onasi in  Kael'thas Sunstrider, last Prince of    In   Prince Suleiman, AKA Suleiman the Magnificent, as portrayed in  In  Prince Harald of Denmark from the  Prince Aikka of  Proteus from  Former Crown Prince  Lion-O from  King George VI was one of the best examples. He was quiet, shy, respectable, and would have preferred being a clerk to being a King. A general all round  Lord Louis Mountbatten. He was one of the last  Marcus Aurelius, last of the "Five Good Emperors" of Rome.

 Llewelyn ap Gruffydd, the last native Prince of Wales to be recognized as such by the English crown, was said to have been like this for most of his life. After the death of his adored wife in childbirth, however, he was something of a broken man; his brother persuaded him in that state to fight the English, with whom he had previously been on peaceful terms, and he was killed in the process.

 King Abdullah II of Jordan aspires to this, and many of his people see him that way. He was pro-democratic reform before the Arab Spring, and when that came he didn't balk at transferring more power from the monarchy to representative government, only intervening in parliamentary politics when protests indicated that they weren't acting in their constituent's interests.

