The tragic hero is a longstanding literary concept, a character with a fatal flaw (like pride, for example) who is doomed to fail in search of their tragic dream despite their best efforts or good intentions. This trope is rare on television, perhaps because watching someone fail once teaches a lesson, while watching them fail every Tuesday gets boring — though that didn't stop shows like Arrested Development or the so-inappropriately-titled Good Times, no matter how hard they yank the dog's chain. It is more common in mini series and anime dramas, where the program's entire run can be dedicated to one or more story arcs that lead to the Tragic Hero's ultimate failure. You'll most likely find this in the theatre, where the trope was born and codified.

A Tragic Hero can work as an antagonist or a protagonist. As an antagonist, his goals are opposed to the protagonist's, but the audience still feels sympathetic towards him.

By the time a Tragic Hero antagonist is defeated, the protagonist himself feels sympathetic to the Tragic Hero, and a little bad about having to capture him. It is acceptable and common to defeat a Tragic Hero antagonist by stopping him from achieving his goal, but otherwise letting him go free. Tragic Hero antagonists are rarely killed, except when death is seen by the Tragic Hero himself as an honorable end which is preferable to capture. Tragic Hero protagonists die more often than not (except for william shakespeare's, who all died).

The origin of the term itself is a slight case of newer than they think. It's usually attributed to aristotle and his  but it really comes from Renaissance Italian and French commentators on Aristotle, who elaborated on his very general ideas about character through a humanistic lens (Aristotle only says that seeing a prosperous person fall is a good source of pathos, and that it's more pathetic to see a not-entirely-bad person suffer due to a mistake than to see wholly good people suffer for reasons beyond their control). That said, Aristotle's favorite tragedy, oedipus the king is a good example of this trope, so the trope itself is definitely older than feudalism.

Compare with classical anti-hero, protagonist journey to villain, fallen hero. Compare the jerkass woobie, a jerk with a heart of gold whose fatal flaw is their mean streak. Compare tragic villain and hoist by his own petard for the villainous counterparts. Contrast byronic hero, who has numerous, celebrated flaws. Contrast karma houdini, a villain who gets away with their evil deeds.

