A specific type of token human, The Unfazed Everyman is an ordinary human with no special powers, who happens to hang around with aliens, time travellers, espers or wizards, and assorted other weirdos. Unlike most of their kind for whom such oddbods are invisible, Unfazed Everymen have a great capacity to cope with and accept the incomprehensible wackiness that surrounds them; in many cases with a wise and rational demeanor.

Generally, they are in there so that the audience has somebody to relate to. Commonly the main character, and may be a fish out of water or/and an unlucky everydude. May or may not be played up as a loser. They've probably been dragged into this by a magnetic plot device, and usually end up so blasé that everything they see only causes a dull surprise at most. Heck, they might even rise to the ranks of genre savvy if they've experienced enough (see below). Expect them to become pals with jesus.

Compare badass normal, a person whose lack of superpowers doesn't get in the way of kicking evil ass; ordinary high-school student, who may look like this in the beginning, but eventually is revealed to be another thing; superpower silly putty, who is actively affected in weird ways by the strangeness around him; and the everyman, who is like this trope but with less personality. Contrast only sane man, who loudly insists that none of this can possibly be happening. Compare heroic bystander, who despite his lack of powers actually manages to help, and the action survivor.

The ever so rare evolved Unfazed Everyman is one who has become genre savvy and is one of the most formidable forces ever. They're not "bound" by the rules of being in any of the other groups and can follow or break the rules of genre to their benefit. In many ways, this is better than just being a badass normal (unless you are in a crapsack world where knowing the rules doesn't mean you can change anything.)

If they are a protagonist, they tend to be Muggle Weight on the super weight scale. If they join a team, they are the team normal.

See also weirdness magnet, the watson.  Compare did we just have tea with cthulhu?.

