The creepy abandoned hospital/mental institution is a common setting in horror. Dirty tiles, broken cabinets, corpses in bloodstained lab coats/nurse uniforms, and rusted metal bed frames are all common themes. Other themes include grisly medical experiments and deformed, inhuman monsters shambling about, as well as using medical equipment as torture devices.

Even without all these things hospitals are pretty creepy to begin with. Maybe because hospitals are associated with illness and death, as well as being places that should be clean. Or perhaps it's because most people are afraid of hospitals for several reasons: germs; the stale, blaring white atmosphere; doctors poking and prodding you with weird and often painful instruments... not to mention the needles... There's also the fact that, despite every attempt to reverse it by the staff, a good amount of death inevitably happens at a hospital, which doesn't help to assuage any creepiness. On top of all that, a hospital is likely one of the last places to be abandoned in a crisis, since you would need to treat the wounded and sick even more during an emergency. If even the hospitals have been abandoned, things may have really gone south.

Many older, real life 'abandoned hospitals' in the U.S were properly called sanatoriums, and have probably contributed to the trope imagery. Their abandonment was sometimes related to loss of funding or new prohibitively expensive fixing due to new government regulations. Often the places were created to treat specific diseases at the time that were eventually locally eradicated (TB clinics in particular) without any later re-purposing of the structures. In popular fiction, sanatoriums also tend to get mixed up with sanitariums, which makes people think of sick and crazed as being one and the same.

However, it is expectable from the owners of the abandoned hospital to dismantle everything of value, and part of the rest for scrap metal and glass. Or some poor petty thieves will scavenge anything left recyclable. So the abandoned hospital should look more like an abandoned and crumbling block of flats.

See also abandoned warehouse and never recycle a building. When a character wakes up in a newly-abandoned hospital, that's an abandoned hospital awakening.

