

In real life, an engineer's job is to design machines or structures that perform a certain task, and perform it efficiently, reliably and safely. It's a challenging job, involving analytical thinking and mathemathics as well as creativity – and last but not least, common sense.

Not so in fiction. When you let a writer of fiction dream up a machine, odds are good that you'll end up with something that is horribly inefficient, unsafe, or just plain impossible.

The reasons for this vary:

 Many writers  Even those writers that pay some attention to functionality often can't be bothered to think things through. Fuel consumption? Maintenance needs? Heat dissipation? They're the last things most writers worry about.

 And then there's failure to think outside the box – that is, failure to consider that there might be If the work is set in modern times, you're supposed to ignore it, but if it is in a sci-fi or fantasy setting, it's a toss-up whether it will be ignored completely, explained as being made of unobtainium or applied phlebotinum of some nature, or only working because a wizard did it or a higher-tech species show us how.

A very frequent cause of awesome, but impractical. cool, but inefficient is a subtrope. Related to no osha compliance, as process safety is a pretty big issue for most engineers in real life.

See also: artists are not architects, sci-fi writers have no sense of scale, square/cube law.

 Most  Mecha in general often touch this trope. A bipedal machine is, with anything resembling modern technology (or in the near-future sans  While   Architecture and machinery that fits, or appears to fit, this trope is common in Dr. Seuss books,  Trantor, the capitol of the Galactic Empire in  Averted in the  Averted in     Just about every single thing to come out of Warhammer 40k is either made out of shot traps, should collapse in on itself, or both, even the more reasonably designed Imperial Guard tanks, like the Baneblade, are literally built out of shot traps, with short ranged guns that have bores nearly as large as their length as standard armament. It's only that tabletop rules forbid doing so that stops anyone from simply shooting the Baneblade in it's Demolisher cannon and destroying it.

 This trope came back to bite the creators of the latest     Rado's Annex, a free-standing two story subtower connected to Darm Tower by a walkway on the  In  The  The Scorpion tank of 