

In most fictional works, it's normal for an abandoned place to be left undisturbed until the protagonists need to utilize it. Sure, there might be a layer of dust everywhere, but the building can sit around for decades without anyone claiming it, renovating it, or outright demolishing it. If the voice instructs the heroes to find an abandoned warehouse from fifty years ago, they can rest easy knowing that it'll still be there — just break the lock, clear out the cobwebs, and continue advancing the plot.

May be justified if the location is haunted.How much of this is truth in television varies widely. In highly-populated areas with thriving economies, this will almost never occur; if an abandoned hospital is sitting unused for any period of time, someone's going to exploit the local abandoned property laws to claim the land and build something, even if that "something" is just a parking lot. On the other hand, structures in depressed economic areas, remote locations, or disaster zones can lie untouched for years, simply because no one is around (or wants to be around) to care. But even in places where buildings do stand vacant for long periods of time, they're rarely truly vacant. Squatters, trespassers, and the homeless will take up residence for a time, usually being driven off at semi-regular intervals by the local authorities. And there's always stray dogs/cats, raccoons, and other wild animals.

A notable variation is having an abandoned room inside a frequently-used building. This one tends to be more fanciful than factual, as any reasonable custodial staff would have access to blueprints and schematics showing where everything is. For a room to remain undisturbed for decades would normally require someone (or something...) actively protecting it.

Note that this trope refers to abandoned areas that are untouched for long periods of time. Areas that are allowed to decay but are still frequented by the homeless, criminals, or local kids don't count.

abandoned warehouse, abandoned hospital, haunted house, and ghost city are popular subjects for this trope. See also abandoned area, ragnarok-proofing, in working order, and the constant.

