Factories made to look like one of the circles of Hell. This goes beyond the typical sweatshop aspects of long hours, slave wages, and no osha compliance. Those things may happen through negligence, but this factory cranks all those aspects up to eleven on purpose, until the place is an enclosed crapsack world.

People are walking zombies there, and may die at any moment, while the cold, lifeless (or are they) machines don't stop moving. For some people, death may be a release. Those at the top either live fat off their profits, or are suffering from the effects of the environment as well, likely going insane slowly. And expect various amounts of smog, smoke, and toxic waste being spewed outside.

This trope started when mainstream factories didn't have anything in the way of child labor laws or occupational safety standards, and then people were horrified by the meat factory descriptions given in the book The Jungle, and infamous real life incidents like the Triangle Shirtwaist fire.

Compare dystopia, industrial ghetto, polluted wasteland, industrialized evil.

Not to be confused with the band Fear Factory.

 The factory that King Dedede builds in episode 28 of   Magical Girl Star Reverie/Akiko Yamaguchi's newest enemies,  In the  An entire city (at least) is like this in the  The Chop Shop in  The lower classes in  The Petpak pet food factory in the  Swedish animated movie  Through its use of cinematography and lighting,  In a short segment in  The setting of the slasher film  The factory in which Max works in the film  The phrase "dark satanic mills" was coined by poet William Blake in his poem  The meat packing industry in Upton Sinclair's  The West German  19th century Swedish writer Viktor Rydberg wrote the poem "Den nya grottesången" ("The New Grotti Song"; the title is a reference to a magical mill in  The demon-run factory in the  Certain hive-cities and Forge Worlds in  The entirety of Autochthonia, Realm of Brass and Shadow, in  The Quiet Furnace from  Every Glukkon factory in  The entirety of the Pitt in the  The infamous factory level in  In  The penultimate stage in  Stage 5 of  The pipe factory in  Grunty Industries of  The Processing Plant in  Smithy's Weapons Factory from  The titular machine in  The insane-looking toy factory at the penultimate level of   The  The  The  The 