

You know that old, foreboding house up on the top of the hill, surrounded by thick forests, and accessible only by a single bridge that has a tendency to wash out during every rainstorm? Yeah, that one. Have you ever noticed that it always seems to attract eclectic groups of strangers who get invited for the reading of a will or a dinner party with a mysterious host? And why is it that the strangers keep getting killed off, one by one, during the night? It must be one of them doing it? But which?

Expect many passageways hidden behind bookcases, usually operated by candlesticks, portraits with removable eyes for spying, and the ubiquitous thunder and lightning. Almost inevitably all methods of communication with the outside world — especially telephones — will have somehow ceased to function, if they ever existed at all. This was more plausible in the early 20th century, a.k.a. agatha christie time, when many old dwellings had not yet been fitted with telephones and service in general was commonly more apt to fail. You can also expect the lights to go out several times during the night. (Usually when it's least convenient.)

May or may not be haunted or have some curse or be hiding a dark secret. If the mystery is set in Europe, this may be a castle instead of a mansion. See also haunted house, haunted castle which usually are haunted. In this trope, while a haunting may be real, it is more likely that the mysterious poltergeist is an elaborate hoax.

Please keep in mind that not any old house with poor lighting will do for this trope. This is a classic trope of, and a great set piece for, whodunnit murder mysteries.

  The  The board game  The game    The titular   Dr. Brainstorm attempts to scare Calvin and company in one of these in   The movie   Larry Blamire's  An old  The Don Knotts film   Even though it takes place in a radio station during a live show,  The original  Xanadu is often presented this way in   Agatha Christie's  Sarah Waters'   The titular setting for the  Mildew Manor, a recurring location in  Most of Foxworth Hall in   In the  The show  This is the subject of      Parodied by the play-within-a-play in   Agatha Christie's  "Out of Sight... Out of Murder" parodies this. A writer rents an old house (where a previous mystery writer vanished "under mysterious circumstances"), to write his murder mystery (he's not sure yet how it will end.) His characters show up, and one of them tries to kill him... but which one?

   One of the Dark Brotherhood mission from   The  The Shin-Ra Mansion in  The best  This is a staple of  This is played with on a episode of  Wayne Manor comes across as this in the pilot of  The old Spider-Man and his Amazing Friends had an episode where The Chameleon invited Spider-Man and six other heroes to an island he owns and filled with traps so he could impersonate them, sowing distrust, and then kill them. He even uses a  In an episode of Batman: The Brave and the Bold, Batman becomes a vampire and invites several heroes to the Justice League satellite, which quickly becomes an Old Dark House, as he takes them out, one by one.

