

Skyscrapers are very tall and covered in windows. This makes them a useful canvas for a creative person to turn into a message an entire city (or the world) can see.

Skyscraper Messages come from lighting specifically chosen windows in otherwise dark buildings to make recognizable images or words. The trope, of course, only occurs at night.

A poor man's version of rushmore refacement or deface of the moon if a villain is behind it.

This trope is easily doable in real life, but limited to special occasions because it's otherwise disruptive to the people in the offices and apartments. In the movies, the trope is often assisted by computer animation; it's easier than getting the permits/paying the money to use the building, etc.

 In  On  Taken  One chapter of  A 1970s  The cover of one (UK version)   A similar variant occurs in  One Chik-Fil-A ad has cows wandering through an office building, turning lights on and off (while late-working folk look up in wary confusion). At the end, the lights spell "Eat Mor Chikin" on the side of the building.

 In  The finale of   An episode of  In  One episode of  An episode of  The music video for  A hotel in  The original "  In the episode of   Actually done at MIT with the Green Building. They've played  Many office buildings light up windows to shape stars or Christmas trees during the holidays.

 Done for real in the city of Chicago for various events; most recently, as a countdown for the Olympic committee selecting who would be hosting the Summer Olympics in 2016. Regrettably, Chicago did not win.

 Taipei 101 does this for most holidays. e.g. A heart for Valentine's day, E=MC2 for Einstein's birthday, an upside down "Spring" character for Chinese New Year An archive of some of the ones Chicago has done over the years is   Improv Everywhere did this for one of their mass pranks, found  A broadly similar thing was done by comedian  The University of Texas at Austin displays a "1" in the windows of the Main Building Tower to celebrate national championships. Other numbers are displayed to honor graduation and other events. (