An old trope that can be either physical or metaphorical in its appearance within a story. In tarot reading, The Tower is considered a sign of ill omen or adversity, but can also stand for civilization, or lone, defensive strength when regarding a specific character.

Usually, The Tower is a structure of solitude or homage to a character whose vision is farseeing and above those "bound to earth". It can also be a prison to where a main character is left to die, or a representation of a villain's pride, as (s)he rises higher towards heaven while surrounded by their empire. See the Biblical story of the tower of babel.

A character that represents the Tower is another story, they can be a tall figure, or even a dwarf with a great amount of presence. They usually have great fortitude both mental and/or physical, sometimes coming off as stubborn or gruff. They're also portrayed many a time as loners unless with others who share a similarity with him, or need him for a time. The phrase "ivory tower" ties together the connotations of isolation and pride into a concept that intellectualism or academic research make you lose touch with "real life".

In many fantasy settings, towers are usually the homes, laboratories and/or schools of magic users. This convention is probably based on Saruman's tower, orthanc of isengard, though some settings justify it by having mages who are also astronomers.

For cases when man's pride sends him too far in the other direction, see dug too deep.

the tower is Card XVI in the tarot deck, although mostly symbolic. In the Rider-Waite deck, it's a tower being shattered by lightning. Generally speaking, it represents either a truth unearthing something not pleasant, a tale of pride not unlike the Tower of Babel, or both. Related tropes to the tarot card are heroic bsod, break the haughty, and go mad from the revelation.

  The  The Evil Skyscraper: The   The Ominous Megastructure: like the  The  The  The    The labyrinth or dungeon is the inverse trope: a more expansive version of the Ominous Castle or Megastructure, with more stuff below than above. See also big labyrinthine building, which may or may not be a Babel-like megastructure. Compare with building of adventure.

             

Also, see tarot motifs.

