A Bar Brawl is a fight scene where the emphasis is less on fighting skill and more on destruction of furniture. glass will be broken, ordinary bottles turned into weapons, teeth are flying and very probably a chair as well, most likely across somebody's back. Someone will probably swing from a chandelier, even if there weren't any there to start with. At some point, the fighting will become widespread among the patrons who aren't involved in the instigating argument. A good clue this is about to happen is when the piano player secures the piano and leaves (and a subversion is if he's the one starting the trouble). Bonus points if someone gets thrown out the window, or if the guy who starts the fight was actually there to try to PREVENT violence from occurring. In the most over-the-top settings, the brawl starts by a completely banal reason, often a random act of violence which swiftly spreads across the local, and typically sees clients fighting between them after having been chatting friendly until that point. After all is said and done, the last man standing can possibly be witnessed paying for the action scene.

The nightclub variation ups the ante with bass thumping beats as neon technicolors overwhelms the senses as blood is spilt on the dance floor.

Bar Brawls are staples of the western, and not uncommon in the need for mead.

This commonly overlaps with escalating brawl. Sometimes it's capped with a check please moment. Compare and contrast everybody was kung-fu fighting.

If this scene takes place in a diner, it's a diner brawl, though the Diner Brawl can also be the porting disaster of the Bar Brawl.

It happens in real life and the destruction of furniture is truth in television: when drunk, people are less likely to aim their blows or even stand properly; additionally, the smarter fighters (aka the ones not engaging in "drunk boxing") will almost always be grabbing chairs, bottles, pool cues, and other nearby objects that just so happen to make for good improvised weapons.

