you want to describe bouncer here? i don't see you on the list.From TV and movies, one gets the impression that a bouncer is a large person, whose main job is to turn away the business of people who are insufficiently cool, or to provide an escort out for those customers who have lost their cool after admittance. They also oversee the wannabe line. Overtly unsympathetic examples are usually portrayed as dimwitted, loutish assholes who needlessly harass patrons minding their own business and always seem to be looking for a fight to start or join in on or a sufficiently annoying patron to pound the shit out of.In truth, most real-life club bouncers have far more prosaic duties; their job consists primarily of checking ID, tossing out rowdy customers, watching for signs of trouble to come (be it the beginnings of a possible fight, patrons who are far too intoxicated for their own good, illegal activity being conducted, sexual predators getting ready to make their move, and other things of that sort), guarding VIPs, and often includes acting as the bar's janitor; the "not on the Guest List" part usually only comes up when the club is reserved for private functions. If they work at a strip club, they will also be in charge of enforcing tipping rules, as most strip clubs require patrons to tip and give the dancers and bartenders the authority to report cheapskates to the bouncers, who can then either inform them of the rules or throw them out if they're rude or have already been warned; furthermore, they also have an incentive to skip the "warning" part when dealing with grabby or creepy customers, as clubs that are perceived as being "creep-friendly" will attract more bad customers, lead to high turnover among dancers, and will attract more desperate or low-quality dancers who can't get work anywhere else.That said, some clubs in New York City do use bouncers to screen incoming patrons for whatever reasons. The practice started with Studio 54 in the 1970s, when the owner empowered his bouncers as doormen and made admission to the discotheque arbitrarily selective (for non-celebrities, at least). This was an intentional ploy to build up the mystique of the club, and it worked like a charm. It was subsequently copied by clubs all over the city and beyond, and the entire practice has become rooted in pop culture as the "usual" way things are done. Which it isn't, of course, since most night clubs can't afford to be arbitrarily picky about their patrons as a whole, but bouncers are still required to screen for and refuse entry to prospective patrons who are visibly intoxicated, rude or aggressive, openly displaying gang affiliation, known troublemakers, or who don't meet dress code standards.

Often overlaps with scary black man, and he's sometimes the only person of color on the show.

Compare no fame, no wealth, no service.

 A&W hires one in  Richard Filth, from   The bar Kadie's in   Of all tropes, this might've been the least likely to get deconstructed, but it did, in  The main character in  You have to be some kind of supernatural being or at least psychic to get into Midnite's club in  The protagonist of  In  Budd from  Detritus the troll, in his earlier appearances in  In Steve Perry's  In the  Rodo in  Show up a few times on  An episode of  One episode of   Some such takes care of the protagonist for getting a little too grabby with the  "Ode to the Bouncer" by  In  One  In the  Rare female example; King from the  The   Each location in    Dante has a run in with one in  Ratchet & Clank featured a  Jann Lee from  In  In  The one butch robot clone in the   Chernabog played this role during the  In one episode of  Mr. T started as a bouncer. His habit of wearing loads of jewelry started with property he pulled off of people he was ejecting from his club - he wore any jewelry dropped by people in the fights as a walking lost-and-found.  John Goodman of   Pope Francis was a bouncer for a night club in Buenos Aires before entering the priesthood, prompting at least one commentator to say his biography should be titled 'Heaven Can Wait, And So Can You'.

  Charlie Fell (vocalist/bassist for Lord Mantis, drummer for Abigail Williams) works as a bouncer at a gay bar in 