Usually, villains have a personality or manner that underscores how evil they are. They may kick puppies for giggles, be particularly insensitive, or might just be too unknowable to be anything but evil.

Then there are villains who are Affably Evil. There is absolutely nothing separating them from being normal, polite people except for the fact that they want to take over the world or use human souls to power their artifact of doom. They're not the stepford smiler — their affability is a genuine part of their personality, not a mask. If they have underlings, expect them to be a benevolent boss. In one way, they're the opposite of an anti-hero. They may pet the dog on occasion, but won't hesitate to kick it with steel-toed boots the next second if it helps them accomplish their evil plan. They may well be a villain with good publicity because, after all, being evil doesn't mean you have to be anti-social.

This villain will invite the hero out to tea, offer them a favorite dish, talk friendly, try to appeal to the hero's better nature, and convince the heroes that the villain's plan isn't worth getting involved in. Of course, if the hero still won't change their mind, the villain will remind them that they are, after all, still a villain. It may or may not involve a death trap, depending on how nice the villain really is when crossed. Of course, inviting the hero's mom out to tea might send a stronger message. The friendliness of said villains can serve to humanize these guys.

Usually a wicked cultured, charismatic magnificent bastard. He is sometimes comedic or a well-intentioned extremist who really believes that they are right. evil has a bad sense of humor is not true for them, and their affability even makes them easy to "compliment" with an insult backfire. Captives of an affably evil villain won't be kept in dungeons, but in a gilded cage.

Please note, in the event an Affably Evil villain does undergo a villainous breakdown, the very traits that make them so pleasant often serve to make their breakdown extremely creepy or outright scary. A kind, friendly man suddenly going into a psychotic rage is made all the more scary by the simple fact that he was previously so nice and kind. If they keep their inviting personality while going ax-crazy, they may cross into faux affably evil territory. It's like a beware the nice ones moment taken extremely up to eleven.

Compare:          Contrast:      good is not nice is the inverted trope, and such good guys are particularly good at giving the Affably Evil a proverbial punch in the nose. i'm not hungry is often dealing with this villain. A villain will sometimes engage in too funny to be evil to achieve this effect. no, mr. bond, i expect you to dine is a subtrope in many instances.

                 