Simply put, a Mook that flies, floats, or hovers, due to either having wings, a propulsion system, or supernatural powers. They may stay out of the player's reach, and will attack him from their advantageous position. Furthermore, due to their freedom in the air, they may tend to dodge rather well.

Because of this, they can be considered goddamned bats or, in worse cases, demonic spiders, especially in games where your character has denial of diagonal attack or takes knockback (see ledge bats for this case). Can be a type of kung-fu proof mook if they're especially hard to hit normally.

These guys usually tend to do one of the following:

 Try to knock the player back via  Stay out of the player's reach and shoot them or drop bombs (or Mooks) from above.

Airborne Mooks in Platform Games, usually those that try to knock the player over, are considered a huge annoyance, especially if they're the kind whose sole purpose is to knock the player into a bottomless pit.

Airborne Mooks in FPS games or Action games may be smart enough to strafe around the player, making them harder to hit. Other than that, they use the same strategies above.

RPG games will tend to have these guys as fragile speedsters. They'll usually have a high speed and evade rate, making them a pain in the ass to hit. Thankfully, they probably won't have high hit points, and will go down quickly if you do hit them. In the case where they do have high hit points and a high evade rate (and maybe some very damaging attacks), you're fighting a demonic spider.

If these things appear in a tower defence game (especially those where you have to divert the mooks' path), they'll usually have the ability to take a short cut and fly over your towers to their goal. Certain types of towers will not work on them either.

Your best bet against an Airborne Mook is, obviously, to use an anti-air attack against them, as they'll usually be weak to it or are unable to avoid it. If such attacks are not available, then a ranged attack will do.

