From 1933 to 1945, germany was ruled with an iron fist by adolf hitler and his nazi party. They eventually used refuge in audacity to kill millions of people they found undesirable, with about half (using the 12 million death figure) being Jews, the rest being various other groups that often got picked on in Europe: communists, Roma, homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, the mentally ill, disabled people, Slavs, etc. The Nazis also helped start the most destructive war in human history, which killed even more people (estimates range from 40 to 80 million, based on what you include. Typically reported as the midpoint 60). Though considering that World War II was the result of the effects of the Treaty Of Versailles and most likely would have happened anyway, that is up for debate. The result is that they are considered by Western culture to be one of the most evil groups of people that ever lived, and therefore easy and acceptable to make look bad.

For that reason, ever since then, people have created villains who are clearly analogous to the Nazis. These pseudo-Nazis can generally range from sympathetic people who got swept up in the chaos to a simplified bunch of psychos for hire who joined the army simply so they can massacre inferior races. While the former is better depthwise, making these Nazis By Any Other Name too sympathetic can result in a draco in leather pants.

Common elements include a black- or brown-uniformed paramilitary political force with simple geometric emblems on their arms, centering on one person as the supreme leader heavily guarded by his black shirted longcoat-wearing minions. Their ideology typically consists of the leader constantly shrieking, "we are the master race/species! we will reign supreme! we will crush all who oppose us! all inferiors shall submit or/and die! hail victory!". To that end, they will commit the most hideous of crimes in a heartbeat, and the only thing that will get them to stop is unyielding force.

In fact, if the Nazis didn't exist, they'd have to be invented. Without actually being grateful for Nazis, hundreds of films, books, and other works would not be the same if they had not been their reference and inspiration.

Of course, since the Nazis themselves stole symbolism, slogans, and rituals from other historical sources (and racism looooong predates their existence), much of what is associated with them today is actually far older than they think. So a few examples commonly given merely reflect generic totalitarian, cult-of-personality, and/or dictatorship elements. anime will also borrow from Imperial Japan, for example the killing of surrendering soldiers, or attempts to stamp out culture.

Any strong German ruler (Frederick the Great, Bismarck, Barbarossa...) or right-wing German political movement (any one) is at risk of getting this treatment, especialy in works from 1970-1990.

A subtrope of fictional political party and does this remind you of anything?. Compare with putting on the reich, scary dogmatic aliens, and space jews. Compare and contrast with gratuitous nazis, where actual Nazis are used (where one wouldn't expect to find them) just to have some villains that can be instantly identified as evil. Visit the scenic reichstropen for more about those wacky nazis and their imitators. For empire builders who consider themselves inherently superior to all other races/nations but don't neccessarily partake of other Nazi ideology or imagery, see master race.

