Similar to strawman political, except that the message delivered through this method is usually not of a political nature and is generally geared towards children and what the executives view as moronic viewers. It is used to dissuade children from smoking, get them to eat a healthy diet of fruits and vegetables while avoiding foods containing fat, cholesterol, sugar, and caffeine, or to convince them not to use drugs. Other Aesops may also be delivered through this method.

How it works is that the character who partakes in the undesirable behavior is portrayed as being rude, crude, possibly ugly, bullying, obnoxious, antisocial, stupid, foolish, misguided, shallow, arrogant, or any combination of these traits. For example, teens who use drugs might be portrayed as juvenile delinquents with no redeeming qualities whatsoever. These characters are almost always one-dimensional, with their portrayals accentuating the negative as much as possible. It's nearly impossible to identify with these characters even if you yourself partake in the undesirable behavior. Back in the late 1980s/early 1990s, these juvenile delinquents and gang members might be shown wearing leather jackets, though this stereotype is no longer used since law abiding citizens are now allowed to wear leather jackets as well and it no longer carries the bad boy image that it once did.

The kids who avoid the undesirable behavior are portrayed as innocent, happy, cool, highly intelligent, full of life, and with a healthy level of self-esteem, always being nice and respectful toward each other and everyone else, and having a really good time playing by the rules.

Notice that this is somewhat of an overcorrection from some of the "smoking is cool" advertising that presumably got the kids to think so in the first place. So you've got a fight between the "people who smoke are the epitome of cool" and the "people who smoke are the epitome of lame" sides. (Obviously holds true for any negative cause that had a P.R. campaign before the media watchdogs got up in arms about the issue.)

When your own government is presenting you with this character, it's almost always as a part of a public service announcement. May overlap with scare 'em straight when the rule-breaking rebels are scary.

When moral guardians can't wrap their minds around even this anvilicious method of delivery, you get but not too evil.

Making the Anti-Role Model too charismatic can have some problems though, such as do not do this cool thing, evil is cool, evil is sexy, and even draco in leather pants.

Compare with hitler ate sugar.

Contrast the paragon.

