An Arch Enemy, archfoe, archnemesis, or simply nemesis is some character's designated and most important enemy.

The Arch Enemy can be the big bad, the dragon, the rival, an evil counterpart, or even a harmless villain. The essential element is that, with them, it's personal. Most typically, the Arch Enemy is a foil of some sort. For example, the Arch Enemy of the physically strong could be very smart. If the villain is the bigger bad, his Arch Enemy commonly is the big good.

The Arch Enemy will stand out from the super hero's rogues gallery — there will be one opponent where the relationship to the hero and the motivations for battling them are more potent. These feelings may be one-sided, felt more by the villain than the hero.

A hero's Arch Enemy is not necessarily the biggest threat to them. lex luthor is considered Superman's Arch Enemy; brainiac is smarter and darkseid is vastly more powerful and dangerous, but for Lex - and, to a lesser extent, for Superman - it's personal between them.

Sometimes, the hero could have made the same choices as the Arch Enemy: the Arch Enemy is showing us what he could have become, as in the case of Batman and the Joker.

A hero may possess more than one Arch Enemy if more than one villain from his rogues gallery stand out, or if a former Arch Enemy dies and new one comes in to the picture. As an example, consider spider-man: the Green Goblin, Doctor Octopus, and Venom have all established themselves as recurring and iconic foes of Spider-Man, each of whom has been considered the wallcrawler's Arch Enemy at different points in time.

Lastly, remember that this generally refers to the enemy the hero considers to be his Arch Enemy, and ideally, it should be personal on both sides (though there are plenty of good "but for me, it was tuesday"-type Arch Foes out there). Especially in the case of a rogues gallery, the hero is usually considered an Arch Enemy to all of his villains, but he doesn't treat all of them as such. Electro, Rhino, Scorpion, and others all consider Spider-Man their most hated foe, but compared to the Goblin, Venom, or Doc Ock, Spidey regards these guys more like superpowered nuisances. Also, remember that being the big bad does not automatically make a villain the hero's arch enemy.

Beware of letting an Arch Enemy fall victim to villain decay.

See also breakout villain, for those instances when a run-of-the-mill villain ascends to Arch Enemy status.

Not to be confused with various works known as Nemesis. Also not to be confused with the swedish melodic death metal band. Technically, the word "nemesis" originally referred to an agent of divine justice or retribution for egotistical thinking; thus Batman could be described as Joker's nemesis, but not vice versa.

                              