 The military (Army, Navy, Air Force, whatever) is portrayed as being evil, misguided, or just plain warmongers. They're eager to commit to massive attacks which would leave massive casualties on all sides, including civilian, chalking it up to "necessary losses" or some other such excuse.

Furthermore, they pay no attention to the infinitely wiser and more moral civilian experts, who are in the right and are vindicated in the end when they fix the military's screw-ups.

Note: this trope is not when a heroic army is struggling against an obviously evil one (like, respectively, most world war ii stories that pit the Allies against the Axis), but rather when the military as an institution (regardless of factional allegiance) is portrayed in a negative light.

This trope is a relative of ancient conspiracy, government conspiracy, and nuke 'em, and is often the mirror image of science is bad, unless the Science in question was a military research project to begin with. It is often commanded by general ripper, and formed of sociopathic soldiers. This Army will sometimes, in relatively rare circumstances, make use of human wave tactics ... rare because while civilians are cheap and expendable, good soldiers are not. At least, to the Army.

If a real life military is portrayed in this light, expect the film not to be backed by the pentagon. For right or wrong, most institutions generally prefer to not be party to their own disparagement. Considering the inherent unfortunate implications of this trope, it can be a berserk button for those who have served in the military, especially if it was the one being portrayed as evil. As of late, private military contractors are becoming a popular alternative in fiction, allowing a writer to employ this trope's usual conventions without offending any real-life armed services in the process.

Ironically, it has been remarked by several commentators that in the real life USA, the rulers and high-ranking officials who have been in the military often have less warlike policies than other politicians with the same political beliefs. This has been explained by the fact it is easier to send an army to war when you don't really know what an army is than when they are your old colleagues.

An increasingly common variant of this trope draws on democracy is bad; Soldiers try to do their job, which most of them view as "defend my home from threats" as opposed to "smash the enemy at all costs". They may have incomplete information or bad judgment, but most of them want to do the Right Thing, and are willing to sacrifice themselves to that end at the drop of a hat. They just run smack dab into sturgeon's law—for every superior that is a father to his men, an officer and a gentleman or even just a plain old reasonable authority figure, there are dozens if not hundreds of general rippers and/or neidermeyers looking to pull a fast one—and as soldiers they are supposed to obey all of them. This is sometimes called "Hate The War, Love The Soldier".

Finally, there's the counter to the prior argument; being a soldier doesn't make you a robot, and that means they still deserve all the hate they get when they cross the line—just following orders is not a justification for committing crimes.

Historically, the English-speaking world has been highly suspicious of standing armies, especially as opposed to local citizen militias. Standing armies were seen as the tool of distant and oppressive centralizing despots, while local militias defend the rights of the people. As a result, Britain subjected the Army to very tight budgetary scrutiny and tended to keep it small and largely overseas; the US did much the same thing upon independence. This is part of why Britain has a Royal Navy, but not a Royal Army. Eventually, both Britain and the US were forced by the circumstances of history to adopt the conventional model of large standing armies; however, while suspicion of the military has all but disappeared, traces of the old attitude remain in the form of the US protection of the "right to bear arms", and the tradition in both countries of organized, state-supported but locally-controlled militias lives on in the form of the national guard in the us and the territorial army in britain, as well as the British tradition of tying military units to specific locations. Also historically, people in South America may well see militaries in this light due to the many, many, MANY military dictatorships that were set up during the cold war. Turns out setting up a day of the jackboot in your own country isn't good PR.

See also war is hell and rape, pillage, and burn. The (mostly) opposite of straw civilian. Not to be confused with the army of team evil.

