

A very old trope, in which left-handedness is a signal that that someone is the Villain or the mole, or occasionally just susceptible to the heel-face revolving door. The word "sinister" actually is derived from the Latin word for left-handedness, and also related to the bar sinister which is a symbol of bastardy, and thus untrustworthiness.

This is also related to evil twin; twins do often have opposite dominant hands, and an evil twin will (almost invariably) be the left-handed one.

Additionally, in older times, left-handedness was often a sign of evil or trickery because of the fact that people would shake hands with their right, grabbing each other by the wrists, in order to show that they were friendly and didn't have weapons. A lefty could shake with their right hand, grasping the other person's dominant hand, and attack with their weapon in their left hand while the other was defenseless. Also, during the Middle Ages, towers were built so defenders would have no problem swinging their swords down staircases while attackers would have loads of problems swinging up. However, this only applied if both were right handed; if the attacker were left-handed, the two would be evenly matched.

In many cultures, before the invention of toilet paper and forks, the right hand was used for eating, greeting etc., while the left hand was used for wiping oneself and other less savory things.

Another related trope is for a character to lose his right hand, symbolizing his loss of a moral compass. This can presage a face-heel turn by the Hero. It is also common for mad scientists to have a mechanical right arm. Alternatively, the left hand might become the repository of sealed evil in a can. Compare red right hand.

A subtrope is the killer was left-handed, where that trope there is actually evidence that the killer was left-handed. Examples of that trope should go there.

The opposite, when left-handedness is viewed favorably, is the southpaw. Sometimes overlaps with left-handed mirror. Also see i am not left-handed.

