When an author has a corpse-shaped hole in the story, and decides to fill it with a character the audience won't mourn.

You watch enough mystery shows or read enough mystery stories, and you notice a certain trend: Frequently, the homicide victim is an asshole.

For example, the victim will have been someone who enjoyed crushing people for the fun of it, or who ripped off at least a dozen people, and possibly more, or who was a criminal himself, etc.

The frequent impression left is that "the victim had it coming".

There are several possible reasons for having an Asshole Victim:

 It's not as depressing; given that, for these shows to work, there must be a  It's one of the few ways to have a  In a mystery show, it  The Villain needs a Fallguy. Murdering a known Asshole, and then lying low for a while, will make the Asshole look responsible for any crimes that have stopped since his death.

Also shows up in Horror and Suspense films, for much the same reasons (everyone is a suspect frequently gets replaced by a clear my name). However, it will generally not apply to victims of the scourge of god, except sometimes when said scourge is a poetic serial killer. Criminals in colliding criminal conspiracies generally are this.

Every detective show has a variation of this exchange at least once or twice in its running: The detective asks, "Do you know of anyone who might've wanted X dead?" The other person snorts and replies, "Who didn't want X dead?" or "Half the city wanted X dead, and the other half didn't know him." or "People would've lined up for a chance to kill X." A common variation once the detectives have a suspect: "Sure I wanted X dead - but I didn't kill him!" or "I'm glad X is dead, but I didn't do it!"

Nearly every soap opera on the air has employed this trope for one of their "whodunit" murder mysteries.

At a minimum, they will have kicked the dog and may be well beyond the moral event horizon, especially in less subtle productions. pay evil unto evil is when the perpetrator gets away with it because the Asshole Victim deserved it. Indeed, this trope is very common in criminal procedurals with villain protagonists, who are rooted for because the guys they go after are usually even worse than them; as well as in many revenge stories, in which they have usually done some very grievous wrong to our anti-hero and usually engage in other nastiness on the side, ensuring that no one sheds any tears when they get their comeuppance.

Sometimes the memorial services for these victims will be... interesting to watch. Occasionally the writers will get some comedy out of never speak ill of the dead, if everyone knows the victim was a jerk but no one wants to say so.

A similar concept unites this trope to the final girl. She survives because she's the only one without sin or character flaws. She doesn't drink, do drugs, have sex outside of wedlock. She's nice and polite. Everyone else in the movie has such a flaw, making it okay for the monster to kill them.

For dog kickers who kick an asshole (not necessarily fatally), it's kick the son of a bitch. Can also be an invoked take that, scrappy! moment. See also disposable fiancé, which is similar in several respects. When the victim was as asshole for things they did in the process of trying to survive, it's death by pragmatism. alas, poor villain is the direct opposite of this trope. A less lethal version is very punchable man, a character who's there to be a jerk so that someone else can look good when they defend themselves.

In accordance with the "Just-world hypothesis," people may perceive any victim as an Asshole Victim just to keep their belief that people get what they deserve intact. Then again, whilst the vast majority of homicide victims are not assholes, it presumably follows that assholes are more likely to be murdered than non-assholes, because antagonizing people capable of murder is a good way to get...well, murdered! Of course, that isn't to say they deserved it.

''Naturally, this trope can lead to the unfortunate implication that it's okay to kill someone just because you do not like them.

Not to be confused with people whose posteriors get violated. Sometimes overlaps with death by racism.

         