While becoming a badly battered babysitter may be an adult's worst nightmare, having a babysitter from hell is a child's.

In real life, child abuse by a temporary or hired guardian is a very serious thing. But in fiction, it can be comedy gold. It's also a good way to give a character a dark and troubled past that's only just dark enough, without making the parents out to be bad. A common fate of characters with a hilariously abusive childhood.

This villain type is always introduced the same way: parents need someone to care for their children. Often, possibly because either a parent or child has a bad reputation, short notice or bad timing (who'd have thought they'd schedule the high school prom and the elementary school PTA meeting on the same night?), the parents are left with few choices.

Only after the parents leave is the babysitter from hell revealed for what they are. Usually this character can be identified by at least three of the following traits or behaviors:

 Children are frightened of them.  The babysitter is impatient, angsty, or just plain mean.

 The babysitter clearly has little experience in dealing with children of the age in question.

 The babysitter assigns the child a task or responsibility that is clearly inappropriate.

 The child is assigned all the chores while the babysitter chats on the phone, watches TV or otherwise refuses to help.

 The babysitter puts the child in a situation that is obviously dangerous, unhealthy, or frightening, such as locking them in the basement.

 When the child gets in trouble, is at risk of serious injury, or asks for help, the babysitter ignores them.

 The babysitter uses the parents' home to throw a party or conduct criminal activities. If the babysitter uses the  The babysitter deliberately To meet the requirements for this trope, all of the following must be true:

 A character is hired or otherwise entrusted with a child.

 They end up doing more harm than good.

 with no support from adults, the child is usually forced to take unilateral action to either foil or prank the babysitter. When the parents return, either the babysitter from hell has already left or blames anything the parents find amiss on the child. Since the parents usually don't believe the child, the threat that they will be back remains.

This is a villain type where on the sliding scale of antagonist vileness the babysitter from hell can range from complete monster, to a jerkass woobie with a dark and troubled past of their own, and alternate character interpretation may allow some to be regarded as both.

The inversion of this trope is badly battered babysitter. If you have a case where this trope is subverted, check badly battered babysitter to see if it goes there first.

 The Graphic Novel  In   In  The elderly Mrs. Sturak from  Elizabeth/Zee from  In  The unnamed babysitter for Georgia and Shaun in   In  Neil Gaiman's  Miss Andrew from the  Mild instance in   A bloodcurdling example occurs on  Played with in an episode of  In the song "Bad Babysitter" by Princess Superstar, the  Inverted in Barry Louis Polisar's "When The House Is Dark And Quiet". Not a   Calvin of  In the original   Rat proved himself to be the absolute   Syphile from  Von Pinn from   Vicky from  There's a  The first season of   A robot babysitter (voiced by Sarah Silverman) looks after Meatwad in an episode of    In  One episode of   One episode of  Elmyra Duff from  In 