Nurses, like doctors, are usually good in fiction. After all, a person who works to save lives can't possibly be evil, right?

Not in the case of the Battleaxe Nurse.

The Battleaxe Nurse is an incredibly sadistic and cruel nurse, often older (and uglier) than her more angelic counterpart, and always female. She gets her kicks from kicking patients, the weaker the better. If she isn't already the head nurse, her cruelty gives her a degree of power over both the patients and the other nurses. Anybody who goes against her ends up injured or worse, and she jumps at the chance to give a particularly rebellious patient a lobotomy. Sometimes the Battleaxe Nurse has a hint of the mad doctor in her, especially if she decides to test interesting new drugs on her helpless patients.

In terms of her origins, the Battleaxe Nurse has many. First is the subversion of what the audience expects - nurses are supposed to be caring right? This type of subversion is similar in its origins to the evil clown trope - clowns are supposed to be associated with joy, and thus it creates a rich irony to associate them with terror. Likewise for the Battleaxe Nurse.

Another origin is by subverting the hospital hottie trope - rather than conform to male fantasy, the Battleaxe Nurse crushes it.

On a deeper level, the concept of a sadist nurse explores a very real fear that many patients have going into hospital. It is, sadly, truth in tropes that some of the most vulnerable people are badly treated while they are weakened and in the care of strangers. By creating characters in media that express this fear, negative emotions can be explored from a safe distance.

The most famous example of this trope, if not the trope maker, is Nurse Ratched from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.

There's also a milder version more common in comedy. This version is still hugely unsympathetic and enjoys having power over the patients and other nurses, but can still say with some justification that everything she's doing is for the patients' own good (although the patients are unlikely to see it like that). In British works, she almost certainly has the title Matron and is played by Hattie Jacques (who actually was a Red Cross nurse during W.W.II). This type of Matron figure was also popular in older Australian series.

A subtrope is the triage tyrant.

 Katherine from  Mako Yakumaru from  Played straight and including a souped-up  Prison doctor Rei Takashima of the titular  Nurse Lois from  During Jason Aaron's run in   In the  John Gafe deals with one from canon in the  Nurse Ratched in  Nurse Davis from  The uber-example of a comic version would be  The interrogation scene in   The Mel Brooks film   As mentioned above, Nurse Ratched in  Annie Wilkes in  In "Down on the Farm", a  The senior nurse in   Head Nurse Noakes, from the "The Ghastly Ordeal of Timothy Cavendish" segment of  Willis Sr.'s housekeeper Deirdre Donovan is a mild comic version of this in   Dr. Pulaski, Beverly's short-lived replacement on    In the 4th season of  Mrs. Raven from the British sitcom  Averted, oddly enough, with Major Margaret "Hot Lips" Houlihan of  The nurse looking after Gage in the  Sister Evangelina in  In one episode of  The Medivac from  Nurse Nina of  Jeremy's stalker in     Nurse Claiborne, who first appeared in the  A 2006  There was also a story in the Toronto Star once about a young American nurse who fatally poisoned three patients (and never attempted to revive them) to impress her friends.

 There were four Austrian Nurses dubbed the  During the World Wars there were several horror stories going on in the front about sadistic nurses who enjoyed tormenting the wounded soldiers, some which apparently were true.

