As the page description for big bad notes, that character may be the one who is directly responsible for the plot, but is not necessarily the most powerful or significant evil presence in the setting. That's where this trope comes in — the setting has a villainous presence that is more significant than the big bad in the setting as a whole, but isn't causing the conflict of the story (and may have little to do with it at all). Perhaps it is an important sealed evil in a can that never gets released, is simply unconcerned with current events, or is a mindless force that can't by any realistic stretch of the imagination be considered a character. Sometimes, the real big bad will seek to exploit or make use of it, or may pay lip service to it, though this doesn't always happen. If the big bad tries to harness the Bigger Bad for their own gain, they'll likely learn the painful (sometimes fatal) lesson that evil is not a toy.

 A Bigger Bad is a more threatening force of evil in the setting and overshadows it, but due to mindlessness, imprisonment, lack of interest, or other factors, it is disconnected on a personal level from the main plot, which is caused by the big bad. A being can be a big bad in one story and later be kicked upstairs to Bigger Bad (or the reverse).

, where a villain directly tied into the story is revealed to be controlling or manipulating the apparent big bad. In this case, The Man Behind the Man is the actual hidden Big Bad (not a Bigger Bad), and the character previously assumed to be the big bad is stripped of their "big bad" status and demoted to dragon or even disc one final boss status. Don't take this to mean that the Bigger Bad needs to be completely physically absent from the story. They can certainly appear or even be indirectly behind the big bad, but the important distinction is that unlike The Man Behind the Man, they are never in direct conflict with the heroes.

A being who fits this trope is likely a demon lord, archdevil, god of evil, or eldritch abomination with a religion of evil and/or path of inspiration built around them. They are probably made of evil and will probably exist as long as there is evil. Overlap with ultimate evil is also likely. The plot role can also overlap with macguffin, though this is less common. In more mundane cases, this role can be taken by a distant dictator who, like the supernatural version, overshadows a work but doesn't enter it directly. Sometimes is a diabolus ex nihilo or (in video games) a giant space flea from nowhere. In either case, likes to hijack the plot.

In any work where those wacky nazis are the antagonists, it's a virtual given that their marching orders ultimately come from adolf hitler, even if he doesn't physically appear. In any Christian allegory, Christianity-inspired work, or vaguely-spiritual work written by a Christian, there will usually be some implication that satan exists, somewhere, and is probably ultimately responsible for the evils of the big bad on account of being the originator of sin, but either can't or won't take much of an active role in the plot.

As a general rule of thumb, if you're uncertain whether a character counts as big bad or Bigger Bad — if you can remove the character from the story or replace them with an impersonal force without dramatically affecting the plot, they're probably this trope. However, note that the Bigger Bad may be part of why the villain became the big bad in the first place.

Compare villainous legacy, where a villain serves this type of role long after their defeat and/or death. May also overlap with predecessor villain, if the predecessor was significantly worse than the current big bad and still exists in some form.

