You meet someone you think is a really nice guy/Girl, or perhaps you meet a favorite celebrity for the first time, thinking that they'll be just as warm-hearted and cool as they are on camera. However, something happens to show their true colors, revealing an immature brat, total jerkass, or even outright villain.

Congratulations. You've just met the Bitch in Sheep's Clothing — the polar opposite of a jerk with a heart of gold.

The wounded gazelle gambit is a favorite tactic of this sort of antagonist, and if they are genuinely evil, expect them to be a villain with good publicity.

It's also worth mentioning that this trope isn't exclusive to female characters. The title is a play on "Wolf in Sheep's Clothing," and can apply to any gender. All it requires is a person appears to be nice, but is actually cruel and/or manipulative.

In romance plots, the Bitch in Sheep's Clothing is usually trying to date, dating, or about to marry another character, and is hiding their true colors. Occasionally, the Bitch in Sheep's Clothing genuinely was a nice person... but suffered sudden character derailment in order to remove their status as a love interest for another character. In any case, expect them to make an engineered public confession in one form or another.

In some cases however, a Bitch In Sheep's Clothing can be sympathetic. Many lighter cases involve a scenario in which a fairly flawed yet well intentioned character make themselves out to be more benevolent than they really are (especially if they have a high profile of themselves). More often than not, this charade falls apart and their true persona blasts out, usually in an extreme manner that makes them look even worse than they usually are. In some cases, a Bitch In Sheep's Clothing can lean more towards jerk with a heart of gold if they aren't too busy hiding their unpleasant qualities with an overenacted facade, instead of showing their genuine (and usually resented) redeeming aspects. Maybe someone will seem like this, then you realize they are just a type B tsundere.

See also: devil in plain sight, villain with good publicity, warts and all. A romantic false lead is often like this. The enfant terrible is also a related trope (possibly the annoying younger sibling with sibling rivalry from Hell). For a version specifically concerning actors and actresses, see nice character, mean actor. For a more extreme version of this trope, see bait the dog, where the 'bitch', oddly enough, likes to kick the dog.

Not to be confused either with affably evil or beware the nice ones, where the person is genuinely nice rather than just putting up a facade (though both tropes can be derail as such if over exaggerated, as can a Bitch In Sheep's Clothing evolve into one of the former via character development). Contrast With took a level in jerkass, where the character was genuinely nice and became... well a jerkass. Also compare and contrast jerk with a heart of jerk.

Contrast bitch alert for a bitch who lets everyone knows that she's one. Contrast also with sheep in sheep's clothing for a character believed to be a bitch in sheep's clothing and eventually subverted.

