Black Shirts are closet evil minions yearning for the day the villain brings about his empire of evil. In the meantime, they'll complain about the current "decadent and corrupt" government to anyone who won't roll their eyes and to some people who will. Once the villain starts recruiting, these guys are in line before les collaborateurs have finished breakfast.

The threat that Black Shirts represent is a latent one. While they're harmless on their own or in peacetime, they quickly organize into a formidable force in service of the big bad. Heroes are nominally obliged not to kill them, but even the messianic archetype would be hard pressed to make them turn to the side of good. What's more, they completely agree with the evil overlord's agenda, no matter how cruel, inhuman or insane — even if it means that they'll end up dying themselves by its conclusion (a fact they usually ignore). While les collaborateurs are greedy enough that they can be bribed into helping the good guys, Black Shirts do it for fanaticism and can't be swayed by mere money. Against them, only force will ultimately stop them and you'll know they'll show no mercy in a heartbeat if they think they can get away with it, so get ready to get tough with them.

authors with an agenda will often make them into a strawman political for whatever ideology they dislike, and top it off by having them led by a straw hypocrite. Some character types like the alpha bitch or the jerk jock can become Black Shirts when presented with the right opportunity.

Named after the uniform worn by the italian fascists and by their ineffectual British imitators. the nazis did the same thing with brown shirts, and one American fascist movement wore silver shirts. Needless to say, this trope is truth in television, since every distasteful ideology has always had followers, and of course, uniforms are a very easy way of enforcing conformity, as practically any organised group from store employees to the Boy Scouts to, y'know, armies can attest to.Also see the quisling, day of the jackboot and secret police.

Unrelated to red shirt and mauve shirt.

