Generally, bright colors are used to create a jolly atmosphere or to show a character's extrovert personality. However, sometimes they can hide an unexpected threat. And you may notice it only when it's too late. Why? Probably because you were distracted by all those vivid colors.

Compare light is not good, contrast dark is evil and evil is not well lit. Expect it to show up in a stepford suburbia, or even more probably in a crapsaccharine world. monster clown is a typical character that fits this trope. not related to smart and evil characters (you should look at evil genius or wicked cultured for this). for another kind of Bright Is Not Good, see idiot hero. Supertrope to sickly green glow, the specific color family of yellowish green that indicates radioactivity, toxicity, acidity, or biohazard; and hollywood acid, again, typically a bright green or yellow.

No real life examples unless they're scientific ones, please. This is not a trope for petty grievances about a color being associated with a political party or a sport team you don't like.

Oh, and this trope is definitely not about bright noah being evil.

 The last two episodes of    In  In the   Played straight with C'ren of  In  Alameda Slim from  In  In  The association of witches with the color black is fairly modern; before that they were most commonly depicted wearing garishly patterned multihued clothing. Almost proto-psychodelic, which may in fact be related to the association of witches with toxic and hallucinogenic plants such as belladonna. See Paul Devereux's   In  From  In  The Daleks in  The tabletop game  Followers of Slaanesh (Chaos god of hedonism and excess) in  In   Ozma from  The entire world of Spira in  The real world in  The eponymous mask from     The Gigglepies and their  From the  A sudden, bright flash/lighting up of the horizon or even worse, the entire sky   The  Chemical hazard labels have bright backgrounds to be easily spotted.

 Many chemical substances present themselves in colorful crystals, or burn with pretty colors. Needless to say, many are explosive/toxic/otherwise dangerous.

 An astronomy example: the brighter or more vivid the star's color, the worse it is for evolving life. Bright blue stars are the worst for evolving life. Red stars are bad, too. Red dwarfs are too small and cold, red giants too bright and unstable. Mediocre whitish or yellowish stars (yellow-white F class, the Sun's G class or the yellower-than-Sun K class) are the best for Earthlike planets. And, finally,  Fire. As the temperature grows higher (and thus more dangerous), the color of the flame shifts from red, to pink, to bright blue. This is common knowledge among fire-fighters.

 Many animals react violently or panic at the sight of the color red, because they take it as a sign that one of their companions has been wounded and is bleeding heavily.

