One of the nine alignments from the best-known character alignment system. If chaotic neutral is the truly free spirit, Chaotic Evil is the truly free evil spirit. Whereas the chaotic neutral character is concerned mainly with his own freedom but doesn't seek to hurt others, the same cannot be said for a Chaotic Evil character. They will do whatever they want whenever they want to do it, which, seeing as they are evil, usually entails lots and lots of death and destruction. These characters are usually the most aggressive of the Evil alignments, more often than not being possessed of an impulsively violent nature and a total disregard for people, laws, or even the world around them. In short, Chaotic Evil represents the destruction of not only life and goodness, but also the order upon which they depend.

Chaotic Evil characters come in several deliciously evil flavors:

     Chaotic Evil is probably the hardest alignment to depict sensibly. Far too many people assume that Chaotic Evil means a babbling lunatic incapable of walking through a village without inducing wanton, meaningless slaughter and destruction. The least dangerous (well, the bottom-rung at least) character of this alignment is the unwilling mook — they hate their master, they hate taking orders, and they enjoy their job but not the fact that it is a job; they'd have a lot more fun causing all that terror and discord for free, and they only behave mainly out of the fear of punishment. The most dangerous character of this alignment, on the other hand, is undoubtedly the chessmaster mixed in with omnicidal maniac, with his cruel calculation and intelligence and the will to use it in the most horrible ways. When these types do come up, being Chaotic, they tend to specialize in the xanatos speed chess variation, excelling at adapting plans as events unfold rather than having every contingency prepared ahead of time.

Not to be confused with always chaotic evil, which is about an entire race falling under any of the Evil alignments.

See Also: lawful good, neutral good, chaotic good, lawful neutral, true neutral, chaotic neutral, lawful evil, neutral evil

If you have a difficulty deciding which alignment an Evil-aligned character belongs to, the main difference between lawful evil, neutral evil and Chaotic Evil is not their devotion to their evil wishes, but what methods they believe are best to realizing it:

 Even though there are some situations where they can't always use this method,   Most Chaotic Evil characters don't constantly break the law, but they don't place much value in laws (or, for weaker-CCEs, do not see the value in laws that do not function solely to their depraved objectives or increase their own personal freedom). They believe that their own evil impulses are their best guides, and that tying themselves to any given code of conduct would be limiting themselves. They often react violently to anyone who tries to instill any form of order over them, believing these people to be restricting their freedom. Chaotic Evil characters often focus very strongly on their own individual rights and freedoms, and will strongly resist any form of oppression over themselves.



Archetypes that are particularly prone to being Chaotic Evil include:

  Most    Most evil   Most       The      Villainous examples of  Any robot, mainly a  In theory, many criminals and psychopaths

       The red oni of an evil-aligned  Less sympathetic versions of   Most disorganized  The more savage variety of    Most cases of   Usually the main (or a major) character's    Villainous cases of  Evil    The more savage variety and most evil  Zombies (the default alignment)

A Chaotic Evil character is perfectly willing to work for or with another individual or group, even of a totally different alignment, if it gives them an excuse or licence to behave the way they want to — the distinguishment between this and neutral evil lies in the nature of the behaviour and how far and how frequently they push the limits the job description permits (if such limits exist). Characters such as the magnificent bastard, the dragon or big bad, the chessmaster or psycho for hire etc. will all vary between lawful evil, neutral evil, and Chaotic Evil — if a character has undying loyalty to a villain or is willing to obey orders but is otherwise drowning in chaotic evil motives and / or behaviour, odds are they are still chaotic evil.

Chaotic Evil characters can actually rule over people (since they only care about their own freedom), but it typically takes the form of "do whatever the heck i say now!". The omnicidal maniac can be of any alignment, and chaotic evil characters are, on average, only likely to fall into that behaviour when they are bored or if they are a straw nihilist — plenty of others believe in anarchy is chaos or even just mundane evil behaviour that does not operate on that scale.

Not to be confused with chaos is evil.

On works pages: Character Alignment is only to be used in works where it is canonical, and only for characters who have alignments in-story. There is to be no arguing over canonical alignments, and no Real Life examples, ever.