Perhaps rousseau was onto something, and no human being is really happy being evil. Or at least some people are unfit for a life of villainy. Rather than being a construct of pure evil, a villain can be a surprisingly normal person despite the tragic flaws and obsessions driving him to hatred and madness. He may even manage to have admirable qualities, becoming a sympathetic anti-villain. Along comes a chance at salvation: a skilled plastic surgeon, an influential psychiatrist, a doctor with a miracle cure, or maybe just an old friend. With that person's help, the villain manages to overcome his madness and look forward to some semblance of a happy and productive normal life.

however, something eventually goes wrong. Maybe they start having blackouts, and can't remember what they've been doing. Maybe they get visited by an old comrade who forces them back into crime. The voices in their head may resume their chorus. Or maybe they see their old nemesis and just have to test them, for old times sake...Ultimately, their returning obsessions become too much, and they can't resist them any more. They give in, and they eventually fall back into their self-destructive, villainous lifestyle.

If done right, it's tragedy. If done wrong, it seems like an ass pull. The likelihood that the writer's attempt falls flat is greater when the real reason for villain's relapse is not the result of an honest artistic decision, but is merely catering to the demands of status quo is god. A sadistic god indeed, who will never, ever allow the villain redemption, no matter how many times he tries during the series' long, long run and many spinoffs, it will forever remain a tragic dream. Chronic Villainy is perhaps the uglier, viler twin to joker immunity.

Compare reformed, but rejected, where the villain has repented and wants to go straight, but may find that the hero, or society in general, doesn't trust him enough to let him. Indeed, a particularly bad case of Reformed But Rejected can easily fuel a case of Chronic Villainy. A self fulfilling prophecy, courtesy of what the hell, hero? or all of the other reindeer. Compare also redemption failure, where the villain is pushed back to the dark side not by internal residue compulsions, but by external circumstances.

Contrast the farmer and the viper, where a villain is given this same opportunity...and twists that goodness into a torment for the one who offered them redemption. Often, villains who try (and fail) to reform have some idiosyncrazy.

Related to science-related memetic disorder and shouldn't you stop stealing?.

For villains who only pretend to reform and settle down, see civilian villain.

Note that those with the opposite affliction, chronic hero syndrome, rarely suffer as much angst over it.



