He'll go to church on Sunday and rob a bank on Monday. He'll lie to get what he wants but he won't take the Lord's name in vain. He'll kill innocent people but won't hurt a priest. This is a character who identifies with a religion and participates in religious rituals but also commits crimes in his everyday life. Basically, a family values villain if the "family value" is going to church.

One reason a writer might create a Churchgoing Villain is to examine religious hypocrisy. The character often views religion as a set of rituals that he follows out of habit. He rarely applies the teachings of his religion to his everyday life and generally does not think deeply enough to see how irreconcilable his faith and his actions are.

Sometimes the Churchgoing Villain may be portrayed more sympathetically. The image of a human being trying and failing to resist his sinful nature resonates with Christian teachings, which makes this version of the trope more common in Western fiction.

Finally, this might be done simply for the sake of realism as a vast majority of the human race belongs to some religion. That said, No Real Life Examples, Please!This trope does not include religious extremists. Religious extremists do evil because of their views on religion. Churchgoing Villains identify with a religion but their evil acts are not connected to their identity in any way. It also does not include people who are members of a religion of evil.

See also: straight edge evil, family values villain, punch clock villain, nun too holy, sinister minister and raised catholic.

 In  Father Pucci from  Scar of    The Corleones and other crime families in  Frank Lucas in  The gangster villains in  Mr. Rooney, the villain of  Moses from  Lt. Kendrick in  Bill the Butcher in  Warden Norton in  In   Robert Hanssen in   Edward Wilson from  The mafiosi of   Derek Sagan from the  Cardinal Richelieu from  Big Jim Rennie in  Long John Silver and the other pirates in  Eco and Sayyid in  In the TV show  In  Shows up a few times in  The Irish gangsters on   In the   A common target of Jesus in  In the  King Claudius, who murdered his brother to claim the throne, is encountered by  In  Any character who has the Zealous trait on top of any of several distinctly non-virtuous ones (including all the  Kirei Kotomine from  Frollo in  In the 