The Clock King is the consummate planner. He doesn't just know when the guard change happens, but what routes they take, how long they spend in the lavatory, how long the cops will take to respond to a burglary alarm with 5:12 PM traffic on a rainy day, and that the 5:20 train will take two minutes and fifteen seconds longer than normal to leave the station, allowing them enough time to get on at 5:22:10.

He has such millimetric precision and obsessive attention to detail that he will frequently boast of being "23 seconds ahead of schedule", or berate lackeys with "You're 17 seconds late". Expect the Clock King to always carry a pocketwatch and chain, or a very expensive looking wristwatch with more hands than Shiva. For some reason, they dislike digital clocks. Maybe they feel those lack (villainous) personality? Also, it's worth noting most Clock Kings and Queens are villains. It's not that heroes can't be this obsessive at planning...they just tend to go with indy ploy instead. There's also the larger idea that the villains plan and scheme in secret ahead of time, and the heroes have to react to what villains initiate.

Maybe an explanation for the reason why most Clock Kings and Queens are villains resides in the conflict harmony versus discipline: they subscribe to the latter, the belief that mankind can and should master themselves and their environment for the betterment of all. This can lead to attitudes like insufferable genius at best to lack of empathy at worst, and all the range of the jerk index. Maybe the Universe just wants to be accepted and it favors those who follow harmony. Notice that the polar opposite of a Clock King would be an idiot hero, who excels at the indy ploy.

He's almost the mirror of the chessmaster. He can't manipulate people, but he can rely on their strict adherence to patterns and schedules. when they don't, he goes off the rails (of course, a real planner will know the exact probabilities of each failure, and plan accordingly to win either case). These guys aren't that hot at xanatos speed chess. He is, however, awesome by analysis. He's an example of what happens when a schedule fanatic starts to learn other people's schedules as well as his own. Common accessories and plots include the magic countdown and time bomb. Fond of ludicrous precision, sometimes to the extent that he suffers from super ocd.

Oh, and you had better pray they don't get their hands on time travel technology.

See also creature of habit, who also likes punctuality, although rarely for nefarious plans.

