A mix of Communism and Fascism is frequently used as "the government we don't like" in fiction. The trope is in action when the heroes enter a Communist country and find that it's putting on the reich — or when soldiers in Fascist army call people tovarisch.

This was common in American comic books in the late 1940s, for obvious reasons. It is not common in any country with any direct experience with Communism, Fascism, . Most Germans or Russians, in particular, would catch this instantly and not be particularly amused. Another common variation, especially during cold war - era spy fiction, is the use of East German spies as antagonists, allowing writers to combine the worst aspects of both national (and ideological) stereotypes.

Obviously, the two systems were distinct; exactly how much they differ has been the cause of many a flame war, but in the end, Commie Nazis are quite firmly creatures of fiction. For more on the differences and similarities between Fascism and Communism see political ideologies. It is also worth remembering that, although the Soviet Union was neutral at the early stages of World War II, Germany tried to invade the country some time later, and the Soviets joined the war in the Allied side. Furthermore, actual communists in Germany were one of the groups targeted by the Nazis.

This trope exists because, for very obvious reasons, Nazis became acceptable targets for western media since WWII; and when WWII ended, the Cold War began and Communism became the new acceptable target. To say that a character was Nazi was enough to establish it as evil, same for Communism, so a character that is both Nazi and Communist should be double evil, right? More or less, there's the little detail of that thing called real life: there are Nazis, there are Communists, but there is not normally such a thing as Communist Nazis. Thus, it is only used for humor, or for very contrived situations. Serious attempts at playing this trope straight will usually result in massive levels of narm.

See also nazi nobleman for a different conflation of two groups that historically didn't get on.

Any example where East German troops are portrayed wearing recycled Wehrmacht uniforms and equipment are partially justified; the East German internal security forces had almost no budget in the early days, so they made do with whatever they could lay hold of, including old uniforms left over from the previous administration and largely unmodified save for replacing the insignia. Pretty good metaphor for life in postwar East Germany, really.

There is a grain of truth in television in this trope: "Nazi" itself is German shorthand for "National Socialist Worker's Party", and the party consciously adopted the characteristic solid red background of the Communist flag for its own design (to more easily recruit Communist factions into its ranks). Adolf Hitler once claimed "You can easily get a good national socialist out of a communist, but out of a Social Democrat, never", implying that fanatics can easily be converted to one's own cause, but moderates will resist any conversion attempts. He also admitted that the differences between Nazism and Communism were more tactical than they were ideological. Heck, there are even actual Commie Nazis active in Russia. Earlier, Commie Nazis were active in both the Communist and Nazi parties in Germany during the twenties and thirties.

