A Corporate Samurai has talents that are in high demand by one or more of the following: mega corps, the syndicate, the cartel, law enforcement, inc., warlords, other power brokers or royalty. The Corporate Samurai will associate and interact at the executive level and works for or possibly as a corrupt corporate executive.

Often, the Corporate Samurai will be the dragon or the brute if part of the five-bad band.

Corporate Samurai are similar to street samurai. The biggest difference is that the Corporate Samurai are not ronin, due to the fact that they are retained by or work for a corporation, or on contract in the Private Sector. The Corporate Samurai are often highly trained as professional killers, ninja, assassins, special ops, hired guns, private military contractors, or former intelligence operatives. Like street samurai, expect Corporate Samurai to well-versed in espionage, technology and gadgetry. In westerns this person may work as a pinkerton detective or for the Railroad.

Similar to a bag man but at a higher level and with more responsibility, the Corporate Samurai is often responsible for whole operations or campaigns, rather than simple mook wet work. The Corporate Samurai has, through merit and ability, risen above red shirt status. He may also be more cerebral and less kinetic with his approach to conflict resolution. He will often be a man of wealth and taste and a badass normal, and will usually be a badass in a nice suit. Often the Corporate Samurai is sent to deal with situations and to engineer or arrange outcomes that a simple mook couldn't handle.

Taken from the richard k. morgan's Takeshi Kovacs novels, and "Market Forces". This trope is found throughout cyberpunk, post-cyberpunk (where they're much more likely to be portrayed as heroic) and hard boiled noir, among many other genres.

 Mifune,  The Specialist from  Jack Pierce from  During the years before  Dom Cobb in  Vincent in  Mr. Kobayashi in the  Winston Wolf in  Sofie Fatale in  The Assassin in the  The South African man sent by Col Coetzee to find Danny Archer in  Otomo in  The main characters in the film  A more literal example in the film  Shingen Yashida from  John Nike in  The hitman Kinneavy in   In  Case from  Hiro Protagonist from  Anderson in  In    Francis Wolcott, the agent of tycoon George Hearst in  Marcus Hamilton,  Michael Westen in  A number of governments including the US and China maintain cyberwarfare specialists. During one incident in which the internet of Estonia was shut down, alledgedly by Russia, several of these were sent to clean up the damage.

     Adam Jensen in  Colonel Richard Vanek in  Conrad Marburg in  In the  Marcus Madeira in  Dethklok's manager/lawyer/CFO Charles Foster Ofdensen in  In one episode of 