Some politicians want to make the world a better place. They run for office and stay up late trying to help their constituents. This is not their trope.

This politician sees the world through jade-colored glasses. He thinks it's a world half empty, with black and gray morality. He's gotten family members appointed to positions and his friends get the government contracts he doesn't keep for himself. A constituent who comes to him for help had better be ready to hand over a juicy "campaign donation".

Some corrupt politicians just abuse and twist the system for their own ends. Nepotism may or may not be illegal, and steering contracts to your friends may just be the result of a small pool of available contractors, and of course a member of the committee for Big Oil is going to be acquainted with Big Oil. On the other hand, some are fully criminal and allied with the mafia or some other criminal organization. They use their insider status to steer police investigations away from their crimes and exploit loopholes, engineer loopholes, or simply get rid of the law on their behalf.

A Corrupt Politician can be as minor as the mayor of a small town, a corrupt hick who runs everything for his own benefit. Or he could be president evil, a full blown super villain in charge of an entire nation. Taken to the extreme, he's an evil overlord.

When you walk into a chez restaurant, you can expect to find the Corrupt Politician eating dinner with the corrupt hick, the corrupt corporate executive, the police commissioner and the don. He's probably on good terms with some evil aristocrats, princes, and queens, as well. Unlike the rest of them, the Corrupt Politician had to go through an election. Or at least the appearance of an election. The Corrupt Politician will assure them all that the corrupt bureaucrat, who he appointed, will do what they want.

Related to the Corrupt Politician is the sleazy politician, who isn't necessarily criminal, but still oozes distastefully low morals. For reference, see the amoral attorney.

 A large proportion of the higher level villains in  Mr. Heartland, the mayor of Heartland City in  Every single politician  In the       In the    The politicians of the new       In the  The film of    There's a joke. A corrupt politician is out and about, traveling the world, when he meets an corrupt dictator. They start bragging about their exploits. The politician pulls out a picture and says, "See this bridge? I skimmed more than $5 million during its construction." The dictator pulls out a picture, "See this bridge?" "What bridge?" "Exactly."

   Willard Phule, of  Senator John Caddrick shows up late in the   The governments of the  In  Politicians don't often show up in the   Is there a single honest politician in  There's a parliamentary faction in the  Politics plays a major part in the  Insofar as there  In  Many politicians in the  In   How corrupt is Mayor Wilkinson, of   The  Near the end of   Governor James Devlin of  A  Most of the politicians on  Parker's ex on  Congressman Frank Underwood of       In  A  In   Kai and  Congressman Arthur Bennett in  Mayor Quimby in  Mayor Adam West from  Corrupt Politicians are 