In real life, "cult" is a pejorative-laden term for what is more objectively termed a new religious movement. These groups are, as the term suggests, religions of recent origin. They struggle with small membership, low social standing (generally), and a nigh-unbreakable association with a single charismatic figure (which can be devastating if this person is still alive and capable of scandals and social missteps). All this, coupled with the understandable anger of established groups at being labeled "cults," means that fiction is likely to stick to a tropable stereotype (which is interesting) over an accurate depiction of a new religious movement (which is likely to be offensive and/or boring).

You can expect a fictional new religious movement to fall under one of the following:

   Revivals: A restorationist group who base their beliefs on forgotten religions which only a few still practice. This may border on    TV cults will usually have one or more of the following notable features, regardless of origin:

 Communal living, with members expected to remove themselves from their former lives (physical isolation).

 Absolute secrecy (social isolation).

 Meetings that take the form of a  A supposedly-healthy yet horrible (or at least unpopular) diet; beans of various kinds are popular, as well as other vegetarian/vegan options.

 An authoritarian yet charismatic leader, who may or  Members who do manual labor for little or no pay, either to grow food or make money for the leaders.

 Members who are expected to turn their worldly goods over to the group.

 Members who are not allowed to have any authority of their own — parents cannot determine what happens to their children; women cannot determine who has sexual rights to their bodies.

 A group which is explicitly shown to be a  The camp or compound which comes under siege by police or federal agents. (Needless to say, cults are popular bad guys on shows  Polygamy and/or pedophilia

 A large arsenal of illegal weaponry and adherents willing to wage war with the government.

 Mass-suicide, either planned and foiled, or used as a They show up in almost any show, from crime time soap and police procedural to speculative fiction. In SF series, it's likely that what they worship is real, and at the very least more powerful than anything they have experienced before; see sufficiently advanced alien and god guise. In comedy, it's common to build one around something truly ridiculous.A cult-like cabal is often at the center of an ancient conspiracy.

Many aspects of the standard depiction are drawn from real events, based on such incidents as jonestown, the Heaven's Gate, the Branch Davidian incident in Waco, Texas, and others. Expect there to be an element of religious horror. If a cult is being played for humor value, it will usually very closely resemble the Church of Scientology.

Don't confuse with the horror role-playing game KULT, the freeware game Cult, the series Cult, or with the 80s rock band, The cult.

Even the most well-regarded cults should not be confused with cult classics, which are almost always entirely different.

Former Cult members are given to coming up with religion rant songs once disaffected.

