She's the daughter/niece/granddaughter/etc. of an evil overlord, who shares her parent's ambition, cunning, and/or cruelty. She could be anything from a simple spoiled brat to an Overlord in waiting. Also likely to be a princess (but almost never wears pink).

Viewers should neither expect her to be the ingenue nor expect a heel-face turn from her, even if she falls for the hero. That would more be her just wanting him for herself than willingly joining his side (and his refusal is likely to inspire woman scorned, however little reason she had to believe that he might accept).

She is more likely to be a dark action girl than a dark magical girl because the latter has a high chance of becoming good after her magical girl counterpart defeats her in combat or otherwise convinces her to switch sides with the power of friendship.

She might team up with the heroes, but only for the same reason any other dragon would team up with them. then it's enemies again.If she's above a certain age, she is going to be hot, is often a cooler character than the female lead, and might wear less. If the bad guys are the yellow peril or otherwise "Asian-themed", expect her to be a dragon lady.

If her father is defeated, she will be the one doing the avenging. On the other hand, she might get impatient waiting for Mommy and Daddy to die so she can take their place. In this case, she might decide to become a self-made orphan and the usurper all at once. In the meantime, mom and/or dad may give her a first rate education by sending her to the academy of evil. If it turns out her evil parents want good kids, expect a disappointment. To correct this acquired morality they may send her to a superhero school.

A (literal) sister trope to overlord jr. (the spear counterpart to this).

Compare mad scientist's beautiful daughter (while also the child of the big bad, eventually does a heel-face turn), the evil prince, protected by a child, dark mistress.

Contrast princess classic, defecting for love, evil parents want good kids, mafia princess (Unless, of course, she's being groomed to take over the family business.)

