It's a crapsack world, and things are only getting worse. There are heroes, but the status quo won't let them cause more than a few ripples of good in a sea of black and gray morality. Out of this ambiguity comes a "savior", someone who brings hope to the downtrodden and preaches a utopian vision of peace and prosperity for all. However, he isn't afraid to fight fire with fire. In a world where moral absolutes are impossible to find, he will use underhanded tactics, preemptive strikes, and otherwise act like genghis khan's patron saint in his quest to bring about that "perfect" world.No, he's not the antichrist (well... not necessarily anyway), but a character with delusions of (or actual feats to back up) being a messianic archetype. As a "messiah", the heroic version of this character doesn't hesitate to sacrifice himself for the masses; in fact, he would die a thousand times and just as well accept a life of torture to reach his goal, but he will also not hesitate to grimly murder thousands in kind and torture many more to achieve that end. The thing is, he's graduated from the school of utopia justifies the means. So while he'll hug orphans, he won't hesitate to make them with bizarre doctrinarian attacks on the powers that be.

More tragically, he may be a fallen hero (or fallen messiah) who has suffered so much that he has revised his belief system from rainbows to car-bombings. He'll usually be a knight templar, with enough good acts and intentions to stay from outright villainy, but he stands on very slippery and muddy ground. If the hero upsets his plans enough, or he gets another tragedy or heroic bsod, you can bet he'll go jumping off the slippery slope. After all, anyone who tries to improve the world through active effort is doomed to failure or karmic death, because ambition is evil. Expect the sympathetic and/or successful ones to claim that there is no place for me there.

The 'villainous' version of this character is usually hiding behind a more traditionally "good" messiah image. He may secretly be a straw hypocrite, but just as often, he is terrifyingly fervent in believing his messianic message and getting others to do the same. May or may not be secretly spreading the religion of evil, but usually assembles a cult around himself; may or may not have good as his ultimate goal. Almost always operates on übermensch mentality.

May or may not be a magnificent bastard byronic hero. Contrast with all-loving hero, the revolution will not be vilified. Has nothing to do with the video game Dark Messiah. See also apocalypse maiden, the antichrist. When put against the all-loving hero or the messianic archetype, that's a dueling messiahs dynamic.

