Simply put, the evil counterpart to the chick.

the chick is usually the heart and is usually good at reading emotions and doing something positive, like making people feel better or resolving fights. the dark chick is much more selective about who can cry on her shoulder. While she may have a soft spot for the big bad, the hero, or another morality pet, to others she's nonchalant about their emotional well being. If she doesn't outright ignore other peoples feelings she may play on them for mind-games and manipulation.

the dark chick has a tendency to stand out from the rest of the five-bad band by their personality and motivations. If the other members are hardened warriors, she'll be more aloof in her own world, or maybe even be smiling at the situation. If the others are a quirky mini boss squad, she's probably the most ruthless and competent one of them all. If the others are in it for the evulz, she may be in it for money, personal background issues, or love, leading the others to question her allegiances. It's fairly frequent that the other members of the organization really dislike them, but put up with them because they get results or are needed for some facet of the plan.

If she gets a lot of screentime, she's probably on her way to replacing the dragon as second in command (much to his chagrin) or is the leader of her quirky mini boss squad and be set up as a female foil to the hero adding a layer of gender contrast to climatic encounters. If not, she'll just be stereotypically a girl and evil.Her skill set may also stand out from the others too. If the others are on the frontlines she may be a support unit or a liaison expert or a spy. She's also typically good at convincing others to do what she wants, either through feminine wiles, or as a no nonsense negotiator that people are afraid to have to deal with.

This character archetype almost always overlaps with at least one other. Most often, this is an enigmatic minion that is given a large amount of importance. A Dark Chick will often be the baroness, a dark action girl, the vamp, a femme fatale, a perky female minion, or an alpha bitch (or any combination). Where the chick represents wholesome traditional feminity, the dark chick is represents what traditional patriarchy may be less comfortable with as far as power and sexuality.

Usually the first five-bad band member prone to the heel-face turn when they either realize that they just aren't fit for villainy or find that hooking up with the hero would be even more fun. If the Dark Chick is romantically linked with the main villain this chance rises to a near certainty.the chick + Dark Chick = designated girl fightThere are some pseudo-male examples that stand out from their team by the personality and motivational contrasts above, but without the gender contrast obviously in male organizations.

