Those stupid boys and their ridiculous little games. What's a girl to do? Well, if you're this girl, most likely beat them up.

The villainous version of the action girl. Likes dressing in black and keeping her nails particularly long and sharp, unless the story cares about practicality. A popular combination with the baroness, but usually not the vamp or the femme fatale, since she prefers to pummel the hero to a bloody pulp instead of seducing him, but there are certainly exceptions, and these exceptions can be incredibly dangerous.

She's usually someone's evil counterpart. She tends to enjoy beating up tougher-looking characters, and a man's refusal to fight back tends to annoy her, and the chivalrous guy can end up badly battered.

You'd think that this would be the point where the action girl and the dark magical girl intersect. Go on, keep thinking that way. We'll see how long you live. Hang on, let me get my stopwatch.

The Dark Action Girl is the dark magical girl's polar opposite: fiercely independent, cruelly carefree, and almost never interested in making friends. While the Dark Magical Girl tends to desperately want to be loved, the vast majority of Dark Action Girls would rather be feared. Just as the Dark Magical Girl almost always does a heel-face turn, the Dark Action Girl almost never does. If she is brought over to the side of good, even if only for an episode, expect her to be reluctant about it at best. If she stays, she'll remain more violent and indifferent than the rest of the true companions. Typically, the Dark Action Girl will only aid the Action Girl against another villain because she considers herself the only one allowed to defeat her.

If an all-loving hero offers her friendship, expect her to take it as an insult. The Dark Action Girl is generally immune, or at least resistant, to the power of friendship. the power of love can soften her up sometimes, but it's a crapshoot; the foolish boy could just as easily wind up getting used and discarded, rejected violently, or just plain killed for his trouble. deliver us from evil sometimes happens, but even then, the resulting action mom is almost always more of a sociopathic hero with the child serving as a morality pet. Though, more often than not, especially if her little one is the fruit of an unholy matrimony, you just get an evil matriarch. Of course, if the child starts picking up some of her mom's habits, she might become a little miss badass, and from there it's a short trip to the scary side of badass family.

For some reason, while the audience may feel more comfortable for Action Girls to fail to live up to their reputation or follow a standard to avoid being hit, you will almost never find a faux Dark Action Girl. This is probably because the standards the decade or culture sets for women usually don't apply to villains. But, this doesn't mean that Faux Dark Action Girls do not exist.

If there are no action girls on the good side and all of the heroic females are damsels in distress, the work is likely using the madonna-whore complex trope.

Compare classy cat-burglar, dark magical girl, and dark chick.

action girl + Dark Action Girl = designated girl fight.

