An oddly specific kind of character, the Dastardly Whiplash is a cartoonish villain taken from the silent film tradition (or really from the old stage melodrama tradition). Usually a man of wealth and taste, in Great Britain (*cough evil brit cough*), he was generally a bad baronet; in the U.S., he was often an evil banker who held the mortgage on the heroine's farm. Physically, he's slightly hunched with an exaggerated nose and chin, a curling black moustache (to twirl menacingly while threatening you, my dear), and an elaborate costume, usually an old-fashioned black suit with a cloak and a hat, usually a top hat but occasionally a dastardly dapper derby.

In personality, he is a one-dimensional, over-the-top, openly evil villain of limited intelligence who comes up with elaborate schemes for the hero to foil — kidnapping a helpless female and tying her up to either a railroad track or a conveyor belt-o-doom, in an attempt to coerce her into "marrying" him or relinquishing the deed to her property, is the old standard. He can usually be expected to go to great lengths to cheat at things he could easily win legitimately.He generally has two moods: when happy, he sneers, cackles, and rubs his hands in malevolent glee, and when unhappy, he glowers, sulks, makes a fist, and bites his index finger and snaps at his sidekick/henchman, should he have any. He speaks largely in antiquated linguistics, preferring expletives such as "Curses! Foiled again!" and "Drat!" (or, for extreme cases, "Drat and double drat!")

Expect his musical cue to be "Mysterioso Pizzicato", "The Maple Leaf Rag", or similar.

Often turns out to be a harmless villain, despite his menacing appearance. This trope is almost never played straight today. The Dastardly Whiplash is well on its way to being a dead horse trope, although some modern works still use it for sheer camp value, or as a go-to gag about stereotypical one note villains. The look, however, is far from a dead horse trope amongst the "bear" subculture. Bonus points if one of his names is an adverb.

Compare darth vader clone for when the bad guy wears dark armor and a scary looking helmet.

Subtrope of card-carrying villain and obviously evil.

The Trope Namer is a combination of Snidely Whiplash (from Dudley Do-Right) and Dick Dastardly (of Wacky Races).

