The Dirty Coward is the slime of the earth, working exclusively for themselves and shamelessly retreating from harm's way even if that harm is about to hit the all-loving hero that just saved his or her life two seconds ago. They'll take every advantage and are not above using dishonorable tactics and dirty tricks, but they'll cry and moan every time the tables are turned and someone uses the same tactics against them, asks for a volunteer or reminds them of that promise they made. Often full of vicious plans for anyone they dislike, as long as they aren't in need of that person's skills at the moment.

Though the Dirty Coward may be a sociopath, they're certainly not heroic or  comedic. And if they're a bastard, they're certainly not magnificent. They're usually only marginally competent to start with, and even the cleverest of them tends to be short-sighted. Even when they know that breaking ranks will leave a hole in the defenses that will let the enemy in, leading to far more danger for him or her in the long term, they will generally run for it anyway (and get shot in the back). Their allegiance almost always lies with whoever can cause them the most immediate harm, even if that threat isn't likely to last. They'll be happy to badmouth people to their faces when they can not immediately hurt them, only to attempt to curry favor when the roles reverse. Dirty Cowards are especially prone to suffering a karmic death, usually at the hands of whatever they were trying to run from.

Usually a villain unless used comically, although they may sometimes be a certain type of civilian that gets in the way. When used as a villain, this is a cheap way to make the heroes look good in comparison, even if they're not everything they should be. Villainous Dirty Cowards tend to fall squarely into neutral evil, since they are first and foremost out for their own hides at the expense of others.

It's tough to make a main character into one of these without them coming off as more slimy and irritating than funny. Unlike most villains, the dirty coward doesn't even have finesse, which can make them extremely annoying. The dirty coward may or may not have a horrific past to explain their actions, but it doesn't usually redeem them, at least not in the minds of the audience. When their backstory doesn't seem all that convincing, but convinces the hero, it can be seen as a major cop-out.

The best way to make this character tolerable is to make him or her at least clever. Some enlightened self-interest can occasionally be mixed in, although too much of any trait other than cravenness tends to change the character into something else.

May level grind in courage if they realize what have i done.

The Dirty Coward is pretty much always male, for the dubious reason that women aren't expected to be brave in the first place, and are allowed to sacrifice others to save themselves. fridge logic may lead to the neutral female coming off as a distaff counterpart to the dirty coward. As action girls become increasingly unremarkable, this may start to change in the near future.

May be the miles gloriosus, and even believe his own brags when out of danger. The fearless fool may invoke this to persuade his companions to act like idiots. the bully is often a Dirty Coward, brave enough when tormenting those weaker than they are, but showing their true colors in the face of those equal to or stronger than they are. Not to be confused with the combat pragmatist, who may employ tactics that can be considered dirty and cowardly but does so out of cold calculation rather than fear. Contrast the lovable coward, who numbers among the good guys and has foibles portrayed far more sympathetically. the so-called coward is by definition mistaken for one of these; if they don't want to be, they'll say "nobody calls me chicken." See also opportunistic bastard.

