







A Dragon With An Agenda is a character serving as the dragon to the big bad, but having different goals from him. For example, if this character encounters the heroes immediately after the death or defeat of his boss, he/she won't try to complete Big Bad's evil plan, but will instead go on to pursue their own plans. On the contrary, if the Big Bad actually has some admirable or honorable traits, then the Dragon in this case will be the more sadistic one, more likely to pursue actually killing the heroes rather than simply dispatching them.

Most commonly, he and the big bad have a mutually profitable alliance, and the big bad just happens to be the more powerful of the two. If he's also influencing the big bad's plans, then he's at the same time the man in front of the man and the man behind the man. dragon-in-chief is when the dragon is actually the more dangerous of the pair, by a significant margin. It is not unknown for him to have taken on service for his own purposes and fooled the big bad into thinking he's subordinate — in this case, if ever his own objectives clash with his master's, things will get interesting.

If the Dragon's goal involves overthrowing his boss and taking his job, he's the starscream. The tropes can overlap somewhat, as many Dragons with Agendas intend to do away with the competition at some point down the road (or are at least aware that they might have to); a true Starscream intends to do so at the first available opportunity.

Rather than a straight evil character, he tends to be an anti-villain or an enigmatic minion. Contrast with battle butler and psycho supporter, who are often the dragon but have the same goal as their master. Unlike the starscream or the reliable traitor, they are usually at least nominally loyal, and their main agenda doesn't outright conflict with that of their boss. If the dragon and the big bad are equal or nearly so, you have a big bad duumvirate. If they outlive the original big bad, this type of dragon may go on to pursue their own motivations and become a dragon ascendant. Compare/contrast with the similar trope piggybacking on hitler. The equivalent among the hero's allies is who needs enemies?.

