The Dragon-in-Chief serves as the de facto big bad of the story. Though he's nominally subordinate to the "real" big bad, he's just so much smarter, stronger or more skillful (and almost always scarier) that it's clear who's really the bigger menace. He tends to have almost no respect for the Big Bad due to their comparative lack of vision, courage or common sense. The Big Bad, for his part, either seriously or fatally overestimates the dragon's loyalty, or is just too afraid of him to be able to do much. In a nutshell, the Dragon-in-Chief is the main villainous driving force behind the plot, even if he or she did not initiate it, to the point that the Big Bad is pushed aside or even endangered by them, and rendered less important by comparison.

The defining feature of a Dragon-in-Chief is that the Big Bad's evil plan completely falls apart without them; essentially, the main story ends with the Dragon's defeat. the hero turns out to be way too much for the Big Bad to handle, and The Dragon is really the only significant threat in his arsenal. Typically, he and The Hero come from the same place, the same (usually violent) world and not the kind of environment in which the Big Bad normally operates. The Dragon and The Hero may have heard of each other by reputation, brewing a rivalry between the two. Alternatively, The Hero might have been after The Dragon to begin with, such as for revenge for a past misdeed. In either case while the Big Bad might stake all his fortune and dreams in the outcome of the fight, The Dragon and The Hero see the Big Bad as nothing more than an annoyance who should stay out of the way. Often the Big Bad's only hope of survival is that these two destroy each other. Sometimes, the only way for a Big Bad to still be the main villain, is for The Dragon to have a heel-face turn.

Because of their disrespect, there are few straight Dragons amongst Dragons-in-Chief: They are either a dragon with an agenda, a more dangerous starscream, or just a more inevitable dragon ascendant (and don't be surprised if they are dragon their feet). The Dragon With an Agenda type will probably be using the Big Bad for his own ends, working as a mercenary to fund his own projects that usually turn out to be much more threatening (or interesting) than the Big Bad's goal.

If one of the other kinds, then they will probably be complaining about how the Big Bad runs things — typically, they think the Big Bad either lacks ambition, or is just an idiot. These ones are often junior partners in the Big Bad's business: After years of hard (but fun) living as a dangerous felon, he has found himself steady employment with the Big Bad and hopes to take over the business some day or retire on the fortune made from his latest Master Plan. This is when he starts to complain about his unambitious or just plain incompetent way of running things, though the Big Bad might retort that his way is from experience and The Dragon's ways will ultimately lead to ruin. Occasionally, their warnings turn out to be right.

The most important thing is that the Big Bad is just not a significant factor if The Dragon is gone. This Big Bad must be much more manageable and less dangerous than their underling, or less likely to make a splash. The Dragon-in-Chief is either the main villain or the star of the show in his own right, and the actual Big Bad ends up relegated to supporting villain status. The Dragon can became the real Big Bad, while the theoretical Big Bad, would be moved to the position of the evil genius.

When a character fills this role because the Big Bad is merely absent from the main story (or simply not as important to the main character), then they are the heavy, possibly to a bigger bad (if they're operating entirely on almost entirely on their own).

See also hypercompetent sidekick, non-action big bad, supporting protagonist and especially the big bad wannabe, whom Dragons-in-Chief (usually) work for. Compare/Contrast deceptive disciple.

