When the mad scientist gains enough knowledge of technology, genetics, or the innermost workings of the laws of the universe, as they sometimes do, and the ambition to go along with it, they sometimes go ahead and act on it, unleashing hordes of genetically engineered beings created according to their own designs of a perfect form of life, super soldiers created and trained by them, reality-bending physics projects, or other such means of takeover, and thus become the emperor. The emperor scientist is born.

It's important to note that not all Emperor Scientists are evil overlords working their way on up towards becoming the next galactic conqueror or dimension lord. At least one out of every three you'll see will usually be a reasonable authority figure, or at least a well-intentioned extremist (or knight templar....or dark messiah) presiding over an empire that, while it still may be....well....Imperial (meaning it may not quite be the kingdom)...is not evil, but instead does what it has to do to ensure the Advancement and Prosperity of Human Civilization. In rare cases, he may even be a benevolent and pacifistic ruler, which would make him a philosopher king.

Emperor Scientists can commonly be found hanging about in various types of post-apocalyptic, schizo tech, future badass, and used future worlds, where they will typically be the guy (or gal) in charge of one of the two warring factions that tend to be battling it out over what's left of those sorts of places. Bonus points if it was their superscience that actually caused the cataclysm, either indirectly or unintentionally, or directly and intentionally. If their empire survives long enough to win the war and become an empire, then they'll likely get their title changed to "god emperor of X", where X is something very grandiose like "Mankind", "Earth", "the Galaxy", or even "the Universe". Expect them to become immortal by this point, if they weren't already. May make the jump (but may not) to actual a god am i territory, using their superscience to partially ascend to a higher plane of existence while still keeping enough of their physical form around to be visible to their subjects.

Like their less ambitious cousin the badass bookworm, the emperor scientist can trend towards Sueism, especially of the canon sue, marty stu, and god-mode sue varieties. authority equals asskicking means they'll often qualify as a genius bruiser. That doesn't have to be a bad thing, though, if it provides a cool, legendary central character to build a universe around.

As a final reminder, this trope applies where a character attains supreme power through their superior knowledge or the spark of genius. Literal Emperors who also happen to be scientists (and there have been a couple) are royals who actually do something.

Technocracy is the Real Life equivalent.

