One of the easiest ways to highlight just how bad something or someone evil is: have an otherwise-remorseless villain reject it.

It's often to show that a new villain is really bad if even doctor annihilation shrinks from it. Another way that it's used is to keep a villain safely on the "still sympathetic" side of the moral event horizon; give him something that he simply will not do. This can be strange if handled badly, leading to confusion and unintentionally edge into blue and orange morality. Why, after all, should a criminal thinks shooting a particular single orphan be worse than killing every single orphan in the throwaway country, or a serial killer be upset by petty theft, or...?

The common uses are a killer or villain who spares a certain target, most often children, a villain who refrains from sexually-based offenses, a villain who helps those who have helped him, or a murderer-rapist who wouldn't hurt a child, or a villain who might murder, extort, run protection rackets, run prostitutes, and so on, but doesn't deal in drugs. Therefore, it is fine for our hero to work with them when the need is great enough.

The trope title is frequently spouted by the noble demon, in order to justify his evil self-identification. The typical format of their declaration is usually along the lines of "I may be Y, but I am/am not an X Y!"

i gave my word is another common variant, which may let the heroes agree to combat by champion. Some villains may maintain their standards through use of a  villainous vow.

Can lead to an enemy mine if the evil is another villain. Can also lead to a pet the dog moment. Can contribute to making an anti-hero or villain protagonist a lighter shade of grey than their enemies. Can also make it so that a conflict where both major factions are malicious has someone for the audience to root for. Generally will  never hurt an innocent. In rare cases, a heel-face turn can develop from the villain taking a redemption quest as a direct result of the conflict (most likely from a heel realization).

In comedy, it's often used to frame a take that against a real-life action (such as digital piracy) or profession (such as lawyer) that the villain is "too good" to associate with; it's sometimes also played for laughs with arson, murder, and jaywalking, where the one thing that the villain objects to is something comically minor compared to their usual crimes. Contrast moral myopia, where the 'standards' apply only to the villain's allies and arson, murder, and admiration where the eviler one is the better. This trope is one of the distinguishing differences between most villains and the unfettered. If your story takes place in a mob war where one side is slightly better than the other, it's most likely because the "good" side has standards.

Compare and contrast pragmatic villainy, when the villain's refusal to partake in the abhorrent act is far more selfish (or in the case of a group of villains against a single one, group-beneficial); eviler than thou, where the villain is dismissive of another villain for not being evil enough; even mooks have loved ones, where minions defect to protect a loved one from their boss; do wrong, right for cases where it's not what is done but rather how it's done that the villain has standards for; and family values villain for where the standards are very . . . old fashioned. Often the deal with many lawful evil villains, but sometimes not. Can occasionally be the cause of a break the badass moment, when the badass in question is the bad guy.

See also hitman with a heart, where this Trope may apply. (Not all characters who fit the professional killer Trope are evil, but many are, and a lot do have scruples.)

Can even involve conscience makes you go back, sudden principled stand. See also evil virtues and villainous valour, for good traits and virtues that villains commonly practice. The inversions of this trope are well-intentioned extremist and utopia justifies the means, when it turns out that goodness is willingly crossing the moral event horizon. This trope is a common trait in affably evil characters. A subtrope of everyone has standards.

                  