This is an imperialist or colonialist man who has just come to take advantage of the natives with a friendly smile and a rifle on his shoulder. He only cares about winning a quick buck at everyone else's expense and exploiting the poor natives since he is convinced his race/culture is superior. Since he is either rich and powerful or in the middle of nowhere where nobody can hear your screams, he becomes the king of the place. He is likely to be chased by angry natives either when declaring such dominion or somewhere else along the line.

The character was originally depicted as a Western Caucasian (usually from England, France or Germany) but people from eagleland joined the group later. If this is the case, expect some white man's burden excuse for his actions (which usually consists of taking over a place, exploiting the natives and the land, then leaving the place as an economic waste after the natives get fed up and kick him out). Two places you stand a good chance of seeing a non-white version of this trope are Chinese and Korean (both north and south, but mostly north) depictions of the Japanese, especially during the years of japanese imperialism. Chinese communists may also be portrayed this way in western films about Tibet.

It's fairly common in works from Africa, India, Latin America and China since those are places where Imperialism hit hardest. It's also a stereotypical Soviet villain.

An evil version of the gentleman adventurer. The racial opposite is mighty whitey and the ideological one is dirty communists. Will likely be good friends with the egomaniac hunter (who may serve as the dragon), if he isn't one himself in his spare time.

 The American on the  "Francisco Xavier" from  Leonard Apollo from  Judging by the trailer, it's unquestionably the light in which the antagonists will be portrayed in the upcoming Indonesian anime-style film  Quite a number of  Clayton in  John Ratcliffe in  Hideously caricatured imperialists cannibalize China in Soviet animator Yuri Merkulov's paper stop-motion film of 1925,  Andy Osnard from  Colonel Kurtz from   Many characters in  Referenced in  Clark Nelson in  Cornelius Hatcher from  El Gringo in the Mexican film  Perhaps some of the characters in  Chinese martial arts movies set between the late 1800s and mid 1900s often have  The title character in  Peachy Carnehan and Daniel Dravot of  Colonel Bockner of the Imperial German Schutztruppe in the 1985 version of  The human-hunting Van Pelt in  The South Pacific slave trader Ben Pease in  The British military officers who orchestrate a fictional occupation of Mongolia in the Russian Civil War setting of Vselovod E. Pudovkin's 1928 Soviet propaganda film  The sadistic and genocidal Italian fascist occupiers of 1920s-30s Libya in  The British are portrayed as behaving like this during the Boer War in the 1941 Nazi propaganda film  Several of the British colonialists in Gandhi (1982) are depicted this way, mostly by drawing upon real historical examples, such as the infamous Amritsar Massacre of 1919. Perpetrator General Reginald Dyer is depicted as utterly uncomprehending of the moral consequences of his actions when put before a tribunal because of them.

 Kurtz from  Basically all of the Farang Phalanx in  The racist, drunken,   While  Adam from  In  The original point of  Brutus Jones in Eugene O'Neill's play  Sir Roderick Ponce Von Fontlebottom the  Caesar puts a  Looten Plunder, and to a lesser extend Hoggish Greedly, from  Parodied in a  The  A brief cameo from such a character appears in the  In one episode of 