Sometimes, everyone just needs a break from heroes. It can get a bit repetitive to have every protagonist be a white-as-snow goody-two shoes hero. A refreshing dose of moral ambiguity can do just the trick. When you're tired of watching heroes be heroic, watching a villain protagonist be villainous can be a nice change of pace.

However, there's a problem with this. Heroes are very popular because people take a liking in their benevolent acts. This is probably because people are, to some small extent, basically good; they like watching other people be happy, succeed against all odds, and so forth. at least most of the time anyways. The reason villains lose all the time is because they do things that make the audience unhappy; after all, that's their purpose for being villains. Watching a villain defeat the heroes and plunge the world into darkness and suffering might be refreshing at first, but it leaves a bad taste in their mouth.

The solution to this is to pit the villain protagonist against the villain antagonist. Someone so rotten that no matter how low you go on the karma meter, you'll still want to go after them and carry out justice. That way, the character(s) can be evil while doing good. It's the best of both worlds. You don't have to do really rotten things like kicking puppies, you can kick fire-breathing demon puppies instead. It's kind of hard to take over the world when another evil overlord is already ruling it; or wants to destroy it. For a gentleman thief who wants the best loot, what better target than other thieves? the starscream has to have someone to overthrow, right? And even the most vicious knight templar is right once in a while. And if both bad guys are bad enough, having them killing each other is a victory for everyone!

Note that if a work's primary conflict is about Evil Versus Evil, then there is a serious risk of darkness-induced audience apathy. If the viewers/players/readers cannot support any faction, they may simply not care. This may be averted by making one of the sides more sympathetic, a villain with standards, or at least some likable trait to endear him to the audience.

Of course, if he gains too many good traits, then the trope shifts into grey and black morality which is a different trope.

See also even evil has standards and black and gray morality. Contrast good versus good. Also contrast enemy civil war, eviler than thou, and the good, the bad, and the evil, which are about antagonists battling other antagonists. This trope is the opposite of a villain team-up. Has a sub-trope in evil versus oblivion, where one side is world-destroying bad.

