So you have your eccentric mentor and with his backing you're facing off against the nefarious machinations of the local evil sorcerer, when suddenly you learn a shocking truth — in their youth, rather than being bitter enemies, these guys were best friends!

This trope occurs whenever a good aligned character (sometimes the hero, but more commonly the obi-wan, the eccentric mentor, the supporting leader, or the big good) is revealed to have had a history as friend, ally, mentor, or even student with a major villain (commonly the big bad, but sometimes the dragon or another high-ranking evil minion). Usually the friendship fell through simply because the future villain went power-mad and the other character didn't want any more to do with it, but more complex and unusual variations exist. Sometimes it will be known all along, but sometimes it will be the subject of a dramatic reveal that can lead the hero and the audience to reevaluate what they know about both characters.

As the top of the page indicates, tends to happen a disproportionate amount of the time with the resident wise old wizard and the evil sorcerer. Compare and contrast big bad friend, where the revelation occurs during the story and the "Bad" character was evil all along (or at least had been for a while) and would rather remain friends despite this. Usually, either the evil character will be a fallen hero or the good one will be the atoner (or both, if both started out more morally grey). The evil character will most likely be an evil counterpart and/or shadow archetype for the good one, and may also be their arch-enemy. If traces of the past friendship still exist, they might be friendly enemies or even have foe yay. Compare and contrast rival turned evil, for where the friendship broke up over personal rivalry before one of the characters turned evil (though certain examples will overlap, not all will). A less extreme version of the falling-out is we used to be friends.

Note that this is about friends who turned evil in the backstory and are either introduced or established in their first appearance as villains. If the friend turns evil over the course of the work, see face-heel turn.

