An Evil Cripple is a villain or generally morally perturbed character who also suffers a debilitating physical condition, often taking the form of paralysis that causes him or her use a wheelchair. The Evil Cripple doubles as the genius cripple a lot, making them an intellectual threat to compensate for their physical frailty. Alternatively, the Evil Cripple can become a physical threat if they use sci-fi enhancements to overcome their disability, such as replacing missing or defective limbs with super-strong powered armor or cybernetic parts.

There are a variety of reasons this trope exists. In some stories, especially those featuring superheroes, the contrast between a hero with super strength and a villain who is physically handicapped and instead relies on his brainpower plays on the archetype of brain vs. brawn. It also provides a buffer against the standard "solution" of punching the bad guy out since the hero would look pretty low hitting a cripple compared to an able-bodied villain. These stories also tend to feature a freudian excuse in the background of the villain that's often based around his disability and is the cause of his hatred for the world.

A popular image in the Evil Cripple humiliation conga or break the haughty situation is for such a character to be knocked out of his wheelchair and have to crawl around on the ground helplessly. This, along with the tendency for the disability to be implied to be the fault of the character or some sort of karmic punishment, can fall into unfortunate implications and acceptable hard luck targets.

Many villainous pirates are Evil Cripples with peg legs and hook hands, though this may simply be to reinforce their badassery, more a case of handicapped badass than Evil Cripple. These attributes seem to be cases of follow the leader; the peg leg originated with Long John Silver of Treasure Island and the hook hand with Captain Hook of Peter Pan, and later writers just based their pirates on these guys.

A common subversion of this trope is when the character is revealed to not actually be crippled, leading to a throwing off the disability scene, but was exploiting that image to maintain a cover or give the illusion of helplessness. Given that, some of these examples contain spoilers.

This trope may overlap with handicapped badass in the case of particularly badass villains.

See also evil albino, depraved dwarf, hook hand, red right hand, good scars, evil scars, disability as an excuse for jerkassery, four eyes, zero soul. dark lord on life support is this trope taken to the extreme.

