Not all manufacturers of sealed evil in a can use child-resistant caps.

Sometimes the Sealed Evil in a Can doesn't escape by itself, nor is it released by the unwitting pawn, but it is deliberately set free by a villain (or hero). Let's call him Bob. Bob usually thinks he can control the sealed evil, or bargain with it, expecting to trade on a certain level of gratitude on its part since he was the one who freed it.

this never works.The Sealed Evil in a Can will inevitably turn on the one who freed it — sometimes sooner, sometimes later. In many cases, it turns out to have no understanding of loyalty or gratitude at all. Bob may end up being killed on the spot, or he may be enslaved by the sealed evil. The sealed evil may make a bargain that it has no intention of honoring (or it may promise bob he will be rewarded "as he deserves"... guess what he deserves?). Or it may simply refuse to obey him. If he's very lucky, Bob may merely be forced to become the newly-unsealed evil's minion on pain of death. In any case, if Bob was the big bad before, he was really just a disc one final boss; the formerly-sealed evil is the true big bad. In the event that Bob survives, this is a leading cause of enemy mine twists, since Bob now must seek any allies he can find to deal with the evil that he unleashed. In any case, in order for this trope to work, the one who releases said evil can't be genre savvy in any way and must always have genre blindness.

In some cases, the sealed evil was even manipulating Bob into freeing it, and you certainly don't get rewarded just for doing what you're expected to do, especially after you have outlived your usefulness. Other times, the evil being may ask Bob what exactly he expected after releasing an evil being.

This goes triple for anyone attempting to activate a hero's super-powered evil side. Unless you are the emperor and would already be stronger than them, just remember: once they're evil, they no longer have any qualms about killing you.If you're a villain, take note: Sealed evil should not be released unless you expect it to betray you. Also, it should be kept away from children under 3 as it has small parts and they may choke on it.

All too often the character will die horribly within seconds of uttering "now its power is mine!"This goes both ways, as sometimes Bob is the sealed evil in a can and the villain he's trying to dupe into releasing him is the one who's not a toy (due to being genre savvy or simply more powerful than the sealed evil in a can), and as such will brutally subjugate Bob the moment he underestimates the releaser.

See also this is your brain on evil. If Bob created the evil in the first place, it's a case of turned against their masters. When the evil actually is a toy, it may coincide with my little panzer, or a killer rabbit. If the Evil in question is the bigger bad, expect the lesson to be particularly painful. Contrast holy is not safe, where concentrated goodness is similarly threatening, and hijacking cthulhu, where the "lesser" evil really does make a toy of the "greater" one.

