The Evil Sorcerer is the living (or occasionally undead) proof of the maxim that power corrupts and that absolute power corrupts absolutely.

He, or sometimes she, is the mage who has delved too deeply into things man was not meant to know and mastered the dark arts. He has achieved great power, but at the expense of his soul. He deals in black magic and might well have made a deal with the devil. Evil Sorcerers are very dangerous foes, as they are creative as well as clever. From them, one can expect anything; hordes of demonic (Or Undead) mooks as the bluntest tool, more than mind control as the subtlest one, and anything between those two and beyond. He will probably be a sorcerous overlord, dwelling in an evil tower of ominousness and ruling the land with an iron — but also magical — fist, though he may also show up as an evil chancellor, using his powers to subvert the throne more subtly.

The Evil Sorcerer nearly always gets top billing as a villain, as one of his most common traits is pride. Where he is a second-stringer, he's likely to only be one-upped by a demonic bargain gone wrong — probably because he cheated. This makes him prone to learning the painful lesson that evil is not a toy. He might also be upstaged by a god of evil — but then, the most powerful Evil Sorcerers often have ambitions on godhood themselves. In a villainous hierarchy, he'll most likely be the big bad, the dragon, or the evil genius (though he could also be the man behind the man or, if he has little loyalty to any particular faction, the wild card). Killing the Evil Sorcerer is one way to stop his keystone army.

The Evil Sorcerer can be at several levels of the super weight scale (depending on how strong magic is in a given setting) but he'll almost always be far more powerful than the heroes (unless they manage to get physical with him), and will probably be at least superficially stronger than his good counterparts (owing to possessing powers that they can't or won't use). If he's an Evil Archmage, everybody should watch out.

It's likely that every sorcerer will be this if magic is evil. Compare the wicked witch and (for the more modern descendant) mad scientist. An undead Evil Sorcerer will probably be called a lich.

