Other factors being equal, evil characters are sexier.Evil does strange things to people. It can be pleasurable, delicious, or addictive, it can make you more badass, and it even makes you more sexy.

Even though beauty equals goodness, some villains are just gorgeous. They ooze sex appeal and carnality in a way that represents how seductive and tempting evil can be. They tend to have looser sexual morals. They are as handsome as they are arrogant (much to the heroes' annoyance). They hide their demonic soul behind the face of an angel. And they're not afraid to use their beauty, wiles, and sex appeal to seduce the hero and carry out their nefarious plans. (Okay, maybe that last pot hole went too far.) Their outfits tend to show more skin and have more leather, fetishist hangups, lace, on occasion, or even gorgeous and functional femme fatalons. Hey, what's the point of being evil if you can't do it with class? Or failing that, overdo it with style?

A hero temporarily tempted by evil tends to suddenly wear skimpier clothes and be more sexually assertive. Many fans will find them sexier this way and perhaps dread the return to purity that will accompany their return to goodness. If the love interest is the initial ms. fanservice, then the baroness or the vamp has to take it to the next level, sometimes immediately.

Often used as a storytelling device; what better way to show how seductive evil is by making evil literally seductive. When paired with beauty equals goodness, this is reconciled by making the good characters' beauty more genuine and the evil characters' appearance more focused on inspiring lust, separating "pure" beauty from sex appeal. Thus, the hot chick likely was evil all along, or has made a face-heel turn; the constant heroine, while beautiful, is not sexy because she exudes incorruptible pure pureness even if she's gonna end up a wife and mother.

An opportunity for fanservice of all kinds. Also sets the stage for unfortunate implications, frequently invoking various double standards attached to the sexuality (and the "goodness" of that sexuality) of a character depending on their gender. This is mostly applied to female villains, although attractive male villains are becoming more common, especially in series geared toward a female audience. This character's almost guaranteed to garner loads of entirely undeserved sympathy from fans (especially if male), but is so ingrained in certain cultures that it's not going away any time soon. In American film specifically this is probably related to that period way back when when only evil was allowed to be sexy — since sex sells regardless.

The following tropes all relate to this concept; please add examples there rather than here when possible:

                          See also evil tastes good, evil is cool, and evil is easy. Compare with beauty equals goodness. Contrast evil makes you ugly. Often a consequence of power is sexy, since mooks aren't that attractive. Both a cause of and a result of jerkass dissonance.

