

Ah, nostalgia. The thing that drives salmon to go back to the river where they were born (yeah, it's not nostalgia, but bear with me), drives people to walk 20 miles in snow to get a slice of pizza of a beloved pizzeria that's about to close down for good, and drives salmon-people to remember the good old days when the snow pizza in the river was... You get the idea.

Now. Some people take this a bit too far. Still, they are benign, right? I mean, they are ridiculous and all, but they don't harm anyone in their quest to relive their youths, childhoods, or more innocent times. So, harmless. Right? Riiiight?

WRONG!

Enter this guy. He loves that time/place. A lot. Enough, indeed, that he will do his very best to recreate it. Whether the society around him wants it recreated or not. Usually it doesn't, if only because, if it did, it would recreate said times itself.

Sometimes, this guy will also be fixated on some other place, as well, and will try to recreate it on the world around him (so that, say, instead of going to Italy and trying to recreate the Roman times, they will try to recreate the Roman times in New York).

The Evil Reactionary will usually try to portray himself as a well-intentioned extremist who's trying to prevent the decay of society. In reality, he's trying to bring back the past through any means possible in order to ensure that he never has to set foot outside of his narrow comfort zone ever again. Their efforts are almost always for naught, since the past utopia they imagine never existed in the first place.Sometimes the Evil Reactionary is an outright villain. They know that things are better for people as a whole right now, but want to revert things back because the changes didn't benefit themselves or even reduced their standing.Compare evil luddite, who resents technological changes rather than societal changes. Though considering they go hand in hand, an overlap is possible. This trope may appear unintentionally in a reactionary fantasy where the protagonist comes across as a designated hero.

 The world of   There was a  In the  In the  In  This is the shtick (overlapping with  The Guiding Hand of  Mad Mod, from  In  There was a New Orleans ghost like this in  The 