Gloating. Monologuing. It's what villains do. Maybe they "set up us the bomb" and are calling to rub it in and take credit, perhaps he's just snatched the macguffin from the hero's very hands and insist on staying just out of reach to taunt. Maybe the villain finally has the hero at his mercy and just has to taunt him one last time before shooting him.

Or perhaps this is the place where they finally have a chance to get all the reasons they despise the hero personally off their chest. Any mistakes the hero makes are also fair game for villainous gloating. At any rate, while this is a villainous staple on par with a hero and in the name of the moon, it's still one of the things the evil overlord list strenuously warns against, as any villain caught gloating is sure to be either killed or foiled, as in the end his gloating always ends up giving the hero that little bit of extra time or information that helps him counter the villain's evil plan. In their defense, it's really fun and gives you that warm evil feeling in the black pit of your soul when you utterly grind your opponent's face into the dirt. Unfortunately, most villains fail to grind hard enough. But how could anyone appreciate the brilliance of your scheme unless you explained it to them?

Another way this could easily backfire is that it goes hand-in-hand with engineered public confession. A genre savvy hero can use it as an easy way to reveal the Chessmaster or manipulative bastard to the world and bring their plan crumbling around them.

This goes hand in hand with evil plan, where it's practically required to give the hero and viewer exposition of just what the heck is happening. Expect the villain to let out an evil laugh and start to trash talk about how the hero(es) are powerless to stop his evil plan. It can greatly surprise them when the hero interrupts with get it over with.

heroes tend to not gloat, which is why villains facing a sword over head will usually either be allowed to live or killed without (much) fanfare: compare after action, villain analysis. Instead, heroes expect the villain to do this, so there may be a have you come to gloat? moment.

If they've just finished owning the hero, this is sure to become "the reason you suck" speech, but don't worry, a thwarted coup de grâce is coming up. May overlap with trash talk. See also villain ball and did you actually believe?. Has some similarities to the motive rant.

                                   

Now that you have finished reading this article, NOTHING can stop us! MWA HA HA HA HAAAA...

