The Evil Genius is a standard character in five-bad band. They're usually rather high-ranked, commonly below the dragon but above the quirky miniboss squad. They are almost exclusively male except in fiction that either has an unusually high female ratio or a female motif for its villains. The Evil Genius is obviously intelligent, and is the one in charge of the wave motion gun or shipping the nukes into the country or resurrecting the lost superweapon or what have you. This character is usually the one that will demonstrate to the big bad how to use a particular macguffin. They're usually a mad scientist, a military tactician, a specialist in a particular field (such as computers or electronics), or has ties to the government (or a combination), so they're in the best position to deliver the goodies to the evil overlord. In medieval fantasy settings, this role is often played by an evil strategist, rogue/spymaster, or a dark wizard (provided they aren't also the big bad).

Just like the smart guy, this character is very frequently described as physically unimposing. Within the five-bad band, the Evil Genius tends to rank lowest in the likeability department both in-universe and with the fan base.

Although they tend to be the most intelligent, that intelligence usually never translates into leadership ability which is always more about people skills and charisma than just knowledge. As a result, the evil genius is usually never the top dog. But he's still closer to the top than most.

Prone to being bad boss'd when the ridiculously circuitous plan inevitably fails or if they are no longer needed and viewed as a liability.

The evil genius is part of the five-bad band dynamic, the evil counterpart to the smart guy. An evil genius who is also the big bad will frequently be the chessmaster and maybe even a magnificent bastard. They can also show up as members of quirky miniboss squads, but then are usually made significantly less effective by virtue of their quirkiness. They often are also morally ambiguous doctorate.

Not to be confused with the diabolical mastermind simulation game Evil Genius, which has its own page. Nor the books by Catherine Jinks, which involve a school for scheming aimed at creating these.

