A good guy turns bad, the opposite of the heel-face turn. The ways in which this happens are many:

 They have become a  They have lost perspective, becoming a  Something horrible has happened that     Their allies have  They've  Fighting evil for too long has led to their  They have gone  They fell prey to This is the evil counterpart to the more common heel-face turn and is generally found in a story with black and white morality. The many reasons and the probability for a turn are listed in the sorting algorithm of face heel turning.

In a world full of brainwashed victims, they may be the one who appears to be but really is not brainwashed.

The term "Face Heel Turn" comes from professional wrestling, in which a "good" wrestler (a face) is occasionally tempted by the dark side, or just gets fed up, and becomes a heel. Magazines and other promotional material from the various wrestling "leagues" frequently comment on various wrestlers' changes in "alignment" (in wrestling's fictional plotline known as kayfabe) nearly as frequently as they actually cover events in the ring themselves. (They even use phrases like "Face Heel Turn", though the shorter "Heel Turn" is more common.)

A wrestler's heel turn is often a sign that he or she is about to see his or her popularity skyrocket. Indeed, it is very common, once they have turned, to remain heels for their entire careers. Heels that become really popular may end up "naturally" becoming faces again, but it is just as likely for heels to be beloved because they are heels. In fact, as paradoxical as it might seem, a heel turn can help an otherwise despised wrestler become likable: fans may well resent a mary sue face character, and may be better able to relate to a character who is profoundly flawed in one way or another. (After all, that's what satire is all about.)

Contrast:

   Compare protagonist journey to villain, a plot which utilizes this trope as the entire character and story arc.

See also heel-face revolving door, neutral no longer, deal with the devil, we used to be friends, start of darkness and et tu, brute?.

Not to be confused with evil all along, in which a character that was thought to be good was, well, evil all along. This trope describes a legitimate hero going to the darkside, not a double agent.

SPOILERS AHOYIn real-life the nature of heel-face turn and Face-Heel Turn is subjective (one person's "seeing the light" is another person's "heartless betrayal" depending on what group the individual is going to or leaving) no real life examples, please!.

              