Some villains have standards. They might have no problem gunning cops down in cold blood, but they aren't going to do anything to children. Or they might be willing to blow up a city for a holy cause, but not for money. Somewhere they have to draw the line - because, if that line doesn't exist, good and evil cease to have any meaning at all.

And for a handful of villains, that line is, "Anything the brady kids learned an aesop about." Yes, these are bad guys who believe in good old fashioned family values. Being a kingpin in the international drug trade might be fine, but giving alcohol to minors, most certainly not! It's their duty as a loyal citizen to show respect and admiration for the local police, but nothing says they can't do that and bribe the cops into murdering their enemies. and, of course, sexual intercourse outside of marriage is strictly prohibited ... unless it's non-consensual, then they can just go wild.

Not all examples of this trope are as self-contradictory as the ones above, though. In some cases, promoting family values may be the reason the villain is doing all these horrible things, making them a knight templar. And in other cases, the family (wo)man routine might simply be an act, designed to ensure that they remain a villain with good publicity. A third case might be that they display acute symptoms of moral myopia, putting "family" and "everyone else" into two completely different categories as far as the standards of moral behavior are concerned.

But then again, some just don't seem to see anything odd about speaking an arcane ritual to summon horrific demons into the mortal plane, then lecture some kids about saying "darn" instead of "damn." Needless to say, the trope carries its own dose of unfortunate implications, especially in a society that is still learning to accept non traditional gender roles and relationships. When used badly, it could lead to the conclusion that supporting family values is a bad thing. Unless that is the author's actual intention.

Compare straight edge evil, evil virtues, and churchgoing villain. Contrast with moral dissonance or values dissonance, where an ostensibly family-friendly character can unintentionally appear villainous to some.

 Claude "Torch" Weaver, one of the   In contrast to his mostly depraved and foul-mouthed supervillain colleagues, the Doll-Master in  While their styles of parenting range from hands off to strict/abusive, the supervillain parents in  Ma Dalton from  Played rather disturbingly with  In  In   A popular trope in gangster movies like  Don Rafael Montero in  Donny, the   The warden from  The snobs who run the kids' summer camp in  In   This is an interesting secondary   In  René Benoit in  Gustavo "Gus" Fring in   In the Japanese series  While there is some serious variability in how good they are at it, most of the mobsters in  In  In the first season of  Omar Little from   The Governor from  Livia Soprano (of  When they're not on the job, many of the mercenaries of  General Tarquin of  The "Red Hood" from   Black Manta from  Father from  Mob boss "Diamond Jim" Colosimo had no problems running prostitution rings and illegal gambling in Chicago, but when Prohibition went into effect he refused to have anything to do with bootlegging (within five months Colosimo was shot to death and his second-in-command Johnny Torrio had moved into alcohol smuggling, but that would be  A lot of mob bosses are like this. Little Italy in New York used to be one of the safest neighborhoods in the city, because people knew what would happen to anyone dumb enough to knock down a little old lady and steal her purse. Joseph Profaci, the namesake of the Profaci crime family, once allegedly had a man strangled to death with a rosary for stealing a chalice from Profaci's church.

 Stephen Quire, the star of the "Greatest Freakout Ever" videos on   Mob hitman   Actor   The  A (Jewish) seventeen-year-old violinist who performed at a party for Al Capone later recalled that Capone told him he should go to synagogue, and should call his mother more often.

