

Another sister trope to western terrorists and african terrorists, they are terrorists who have their base of operations in the Far Eastern part of the Asian continent (which is made up of South/Southeast and East Asia), where they conduct operations against domestic/foreign governments and interests. They can also be based in other places, but are primarily made up (the majority at least) of individuals who are of Far East Asian origin. Like african terrorists, they are sometimes used by a well-funded criminal/terrorist organization as mooks, usually by a western man (or woman). Otherwise, they may be led by a Middle Eastern terrorist.

In other instances, Far East Asian terrorists are either terrorists without a cause, la résistance or are placed under your terrorists are our freedom fighters. Depending on circumstances, they may be tied in some way with with ruthless foreign gangsters. While in other circumstances, they may be an individual or a few persons of Far East Asian origin who operate as a lone wolf-type terrorist. There is a possibility that they can be placed in unfortunate implications with a case of yellow peril for terrorists who are of East Asian origin.

Creators can draw inspiration from real life sources and cases where terrorism has occurred in the Far East, such as communist or nationalist groups. In other cases, they also include religious terrorist groups in the region.

Compare western terrorists, which consists of terrorists who are born/raised in Western countries from the Americas to Europe, including Australia and New Zealand, and african terrorists, which consists of terrorists who are born/raised in the African continent.

No real life examples please.

  Played with in    Leftist terrorists are antagonists in the Kerberos series, incluing  In the first episodes of  Kuyou in  In the manga adaptation of  Majority of the antagonists in  The ESP Liberation Front in   A rare case in  The Red Empire in  The Indonesian graphic novel  Averted in   The terrorist group Red Bamboo is treated as a minor antagonist in a few  In  A fugitive Aum Shinrinkyo cultist named Satoshi Isagura, wanted for the Tokyo subway attacks in 1995, shows up in arms deal in Tomorrow Never Dies. In Die Another Day, Colonel Tan-Sun Moon and his faction in the Korean People's Army turn into pro-North Korean unification terrorists after the former used the revenue from smuggling to arm his faction and create the superweapon called Icarus.

 In the  Prior to the events of 24: Live Another Day, Cheng Zhi has become a terrorist after being broken out of prison for attempting a revolt.

 In  In  Takes a parody twist in the first season of  For the  When  In both  In  One of the minor antagonists in  The final episode of  Seemingly played/averted with  In  A few of them are minor antagonists in  In  In the single player pack  In all of the 