A villain whose polite mannerisms only serve to enhance their evil.

They lack a villainous demeanor, yet they are truly, wholly, and unrepentantly evil regardless. This kind of villain maintains a friendly, courteous mask even as they commit incredibly heinous acts. Unlike affably evil characters, whose niceness is genuine, Faux Affably Evil villains adopt this pleasant persona. An affably evil villain will treat the hero like a friend, and will be reluctant to make an enemy of them. A Faux Affably Evil villain will throw in a jolly "Ooh, my friend, aren't we having a lot of fun?" as they are torturing them.

A Faux Affably Evil character's demeanor is an act. At heart, they're utterly soulless, but they mask it with a pleasant, polite, "normal" attitude, perhaps because they have social standards to live up to or because their pleasantness reflects their sheer enjoyment of evil. It's anyone's guess what this kind of villain will do if they suffer a villainous breakdown; maybe they will drop all pretenses and find that they are not so above it all or maybe they will fall into a state of dissonant serenity, blabbering off-kilter pseudo-mannerisms as they lapse into their final and greatest puppy-murdering spree.

Do not confuse with laughably evil, which is a villain who is funny rather than polite. While many Faux Affably Evil villains are also laughably evil, many other villains are one but not the other. Compare and contrast affably evil (whose niceness is sincere) and this Trope's opposite, noble demon (whose demeanor is evil in contrast to their actions). for the evulz is a common motivation, though using this trope as a form of obfuscating stupidity is also possible. Also see its downplayed counterpart bitch in sheep's clothing, where a jerkass is hiding behind a nice guy facade, and stepford smiler, when a miserable or mentally unstable person is hiding behind a cheery and sweet facade. May also overlap with soft-spoken sadist. Contrast with good is not nice, which is a good character that just isn't polite. Not to be confused with sophisticated as hell where the affable demeanour hides a coarser personality.

