

This character is someone whom the audience would consider a villain in any other story. They kick the dog, they rape, pillage, and burn, they cross the moral event horizon time and time again...because someone or something else is making them do it.

This type of character is similar to, but separate from a necessarily evil villain. A necessarily evil villain typically performs their heinous acts of their own free will, because they think an ideal solution isn't possible or because it's the path that guarantees the most success. Ultimately, they may be right or wrong, but the responsibility rests completely with themselves. They believe their actions will lead to a greater good, and they are carrying out their own will. No one made them do anything.

Not so for this character. These characters are villains because they truly don't have another option (that they know of anyway). Either they, someone they know, or even the world itself is in grave danger if they don't do what they've been told, and there isn't enough time or opportunity to find another way. They know that their actions are evil and will mean inevitable victory for the evil side, but their actions, no matter how horrible, mean the difference between evil winning now or evil winning later. Another example is that they may have power born of madness or a super-powered evil side, but have no choice but to use it to solve a bigger problem. Either way, all this person generally needs is to be freed from any external coercion or taught a better solution to their problem.

Given enough time, they may fall prey to evil feels good, evil tastes good or evil is easy and make a full face-heel turn.

Character types that are prone to this trope are the noble demon, friendly enemy, tragic monster, slave mook and anti-villain (almost always a type iv). Situations like explosive leash, i have your wife, please spare him, my liege!, or an offer you can't refuse usually turns into this (when the hero is the pleading party). Also expect one-sided teeth-clenched teamwork on the side of the forced, if they're told to fight alongside the evil.

May lead to a faustian rebellion. A character who is trying to fight back may be a stealth mentor for the good guys and/or a sixth ranger traitor for the villains.

Contrast with brainwashed and face monster turn tropes, where the character is forcefully modified and robbed of free will to be steered into evil, or mind rape where they were wrecked so hard their free will wasn't working straight to steer them into evil. Not so for this character, this character knows what he/she is doing and had their free will intact and straight, but still couldn't do a thing to resist the forcing... for the moment. Also compare with more than mind control where the character is coerced mentally into believing that the only way available is something that he/she doesn't like, thus being forced to make a free will choice of steering themselves into evil.

May also overlap with trapped in villainy.

