Most villains have logical motivations for (morally) reprehensible actions and intentions. ambition, greed, zeal, fear, love, hatred, revenge, a troubled childhood, the desire for utopia and other warped "ideals" can all drive people to evil in ways that we understand and may be familiar with. If a villain's motivations can just be understood, they can be reasoned with — sometimes.

On the other hand, some villains cannot be reasoned with because there is nothing reasonable about their reasons for acting... well, evil. Unlike the amoral motivation we call it amused me, which may lead to evil in the pursuit of (attachment-free) amusement, someone whose motivation is For The Evulz knows and cares about the morality of their actions — insofar as they choose to do evil, and delight in doing so. To them, evil is not a bad means to a good end or even a bad means to an evil end; to them, evil is the means and the end, their motivation and their justification.

This may be because evil feels good while good is boring and dumb, but The Evulz is different from it amused me in that the Evulz-seeker need not find any pleasure in their evil acts — in some cases they themselves (also) suffer as a consequence of the crapsack world they inflict upon themselves and others. In other words, while many villains who follow this trope enjoy what they're doing, complete indifference exists as well. Note that self-centered and amoral types merely seeking amusement wouldn't bother doing something bad if it harmed them too.

What keeps a villain going in the name of The Evulz (and The Evulz alone) is not strength of character, however, but rather a fundamental lack of personality. The quintessential For the Evulz villain's suicidal bravery actually stems from their non-existent sense of self (beyond 'I love doing and being evil') and, by extension, lack of a self-preservation instinct. They probably don't actively want to die or be tortured, but they really don't (and physically can't) care about it either.

A character whose personality is defined by this trope (and who is not played for laughs) is almost invariably a complete monster, the Complete Monster being defined as, well, completely monstrous — needing no justifications for doing evil and having no humanising or sympathetic elements (e.g., good intent or self-doubt) whatsoever. Other villainous personality types associated with For The Evulz include the psycho for hire (who is very likely to be ax-crazy), the straw nihilist, the sociopath and variants of the chaotic evil character alignment.

Please note that chaotic evil is not the same thing; it's a likely alignment for someone with this as their motivation, since irrationality and acting chaotically often go hand in hand, but chaotic evil encompasses anyone else who is clearly more evil than good and more chaotic than not. This means that realistically, even if someone is Chaotic Evil, they still can and likely do have more logical motivations than For The Evulz. Furthermore, it's possible to be neutral evil or even lawful evil and be in it For The Evulz.

Of course, tropes are tools without fail. Poor writing of this trope can lead to stupid evil territory when villains do petty things or even dumb things that lead to their own downfall. Laziness in regards to this motivation can also lead to writing a generic doomsday villain since some writers tend to not put any characterization behind the motive to make it believable.

Some variants of For the Evulz characters, such as the straw nihilist and most notably the joker, compensate for this character flaw through using philosophy; they question and challenge the heroes' conception about justice, order, reason and the workings of the world, especially when it's a crapsack world where those who do evil without any reason whatsoever can get away with it. These people are very likely to give a breaking speech that deconstructs the other characters' assumption that there should be a logical, beneficial, realistic reason behind every behaviour.

video game cruelty potential is when the player of a game is allowed or even encouraged to do things For The Evulz. If a whole race has a motive like this, it's always chaotic evil (but Always Chaotic Evil can have other flavours of shared evil). Compare it amused me, for (comedically) callous or amoral seekers of amusement, if you're so evil, eat this kitten for the demand of evil acts as proof of evil, and trolls.

Compare made of evil, which is a character which also does evil for the sake of it, but do so because they are actually an anthropomorphic personification of evil. See also dystopia justifies the means, when a character strives to create a perpetual dystopic world simply for the sake of suffering.

In the real life, this trope is common amongst psychopaths and sociopaths. Let's leave it there - any specific examples are redundant.

The trope maker for chaotic evil.

sister trope to threw my bike on the roof.

The evil counterpart to for great justice.

