They call it a revolution for a reason.

This trope refers to when a revolution loses revolutionary zeal and just repeats the pre-revolution business as usual, via bureaucratic inertia. Names and rhetoric change, the injustices stay the same.

This generally happens, and for just the same reason that the phrase "The Revolution has been betrayed!" is such a cliché: egalitarian rhetoric is well and good, especially among those outside the establishment, but once an erstwhile egalitarian gets a taste of real power and discovers how sweet it is, he tends to get very willing very fast to remove, "by any means necessary", whatever obstacles stand between him and that power. This occurring not in a vacuum, but in competition with other revolutionaries who are making the same discovery at about the same time, the result generally is a multi-cornered dogfight in which the most ruthless bastard is extremely likely to be the last left standing — which tends to have unfortunate consequences for the masses, from whom said bastard will have risen, and which might just elevate someone else to supplant him lest he ensure their loyalty.

On a less ideological note, this often happens because of a clash of what to revolutionize - do you want to alter an obsolete system of government and change the economy so that it favors the poor over the wealthy and privilege this over all other issues? (Russia, Communist Revolutions generally), establish representative democracy while leaving socio-economic issues as a bridge to cross on another day? (American) or do both at the same time? (French) or in the case of Independence and Anti-Colonial revolutions it can simply be occupiers out of our country and self-determination (India, Algeria, Egypt). Ultimately, revolutions become civilized or un-civilized based on clarity of immediate short-term interests, and they become violent when one, two or five factions clash on who's left and who's more right on a given issue and how pressing said issue is with the people.

Compare reign of terror; that, in fact, can naturally lead to this. Bloodbaths tend to make people lose fervor even when, in the case of the Terror, was often demanded and enabled by popular fervor to start with.

See also meet the new boss, for when the new villain doesn't even bother pretending to be any better than the one he's just deposed. For when the revolution was intended to place a new tyrant on the throne from the start, see staged populist uprising. revolving door revolution is when the new government is deposed by another, which is deposed by another ad nauseam.

This trope has very strong real life connotations. Famous mathematician and physician Pierre-Simon de Laplace, who lived through the french revolution, coined the term parabola of Revolution: it began with the reign of the Bourbons, ascended like a parabola through constitutional monarchy, republic, reign of terror and pinnacled at Napoleon's empire; then it descended again through military defeats, restoration of the Bourbons, the 100 days' empire and Waterloo, and descended back to the reign of the Bourbons, just like a parabolic arc.

