The Generic Doomsday Villain is an overpowering antagonist without a believable goal, motive or plan. They do not fancy themselves to be doing the right thing, they're not driven by envy, they have no personal vendetta against any of their victims, they are not in it for the money, they're not seeking revenge for any real or imagined wrong done to them, and they're not even trying to satiate their excessive pride. So, why are they spreading destruction and misery? because... they're evil.A story needs a villain to drive the plot forward and to give the heroes something to foil. This villain needs to be powerful enough to stump the protagonists at least for a story arc. The Generic Doomsday Villain serves these purposes, but they're all power and no personality. You know you are dealing with a Generic Doomsday Villain when you can imagine them being replaced with a natural disaster or a completely different villain, and the plot would pretty much still work the same way.

It's possible for a villain to start out as a Generic Doomsday Villain, to establish their threat early on so the hero(es) have a reason for fighting them. Their backstory, motivations, and characterization can be revealed either in a focus episode or in a gradual manner throughout a series. Sometimes, a writer will use this intentionally, making a villain who is literally like a force of nature or a natural disaster, or with motives beyond human comprehension — not really intended to be a character in their own right, just something that happens which the heroes have to deal with.

A related concept is for the evulz, where a villain does evil simply for the sake of it. This can easily be confused with a Generic Doomsday Villain, but For the Evulz as a motive more specifically emphasizes the villain as a sadistic asshole who gets off on their acts. A Generic Doomsday Villain will usually lack even that aspect to their personality, seeming to do evil for literally no reason because that's just what they do. Also don't confuse with omnicidal maniac. First, while a Generic Doomsday often is an Omnicidal Maniac, this trope is by no means limited to villains who want to destroy the world. Second, a Maniac's plan might not strictly make sense (say, being portrayed more as a suicidal cosmic temper tantrum, thus hampering their own survival), but their destructive motive is very real.

See also invincible villain, who generally receive more characterization, but whose functional or actual invincibility causes them to also become defined more for the threat they pose to the hero. While similar, it should not be confused with diabolus ex nihilo, which is a powerful villain who comes out of nowhere to shake things up and promptly move off. The outside-context villain may appear similarly powerful with as little motivation, but in their case the answers come before long, and it's established that their being unknown to the in-universe world at large is part of the threat.

