A person, often an officer in military settings, who is out to win glory in war, regardless of the cost. Sometimes the cost is to himself, but usually it's only to his men. (Sometimes just the foot soldiers, when he regards only officers as important, sometimes all subordinates, when he subordinates them all to his quest for glory.)

May lead the troops himself, often long after it's clear the attack is futile, but the more odious examples may also be the armchair military. In either case, count on his laying claim to his men's, or other officers', work and ideas and sloughing off all the blame. He will never say think nothing of it until he is certain that it will only be taken as modesty — and he requires a great deal of certainty.

May actually refuse to provide support to other units, or ask for reinforcements, when it would interfere with his quest for glory. May neglect the less glamorous parts of the military — leading from the front, for instance, when he should be attending to supplies. When stealing credit, he may try to destroy the career of the actually responsible person, because he isn't in sole control of the promotion ladder, and he can't prevent a capable underling from being promoted.

Indeed, in peacetime, he may foment war; if he has enough power, he may insist on attack. the caligula, when a glory hound, is particularly dangerous.

Commonest among the military because of the authority of his position, but other characters are possible: an egomaniac hunter endangering others on the expedition, a super hero who even sets up "menaces" so he can receive credit for dealing with them.

He is unusually likely to be the karma houdini, walking away with medals or promotions after slaughter. (He is often fond of the bling of war.) At worst, he usually suffers no more than reassigned to antarctica. His subordinates may realize that every mission is what you are in the dark.

May also be the neidermeyer. Count on his saying we have reserves, not only when the battle might be lost, but when the victory will not reflect on him as well without it.

he canonical character alignment for many Glory Hounds is chaotic evil. neutral evil and chaotic neutral examples exist. Usually is the unfettered, depending on how willing they are to do any expenditures to achieve glory.

sub-trope of glory seeker, who is also after glory but doesn't have to do anything discreditable to get it.

Contrast miles gloriosus, who will often try to steal credit after the fact, but is far too much of a dirty coward to actually seek out any actually glorious situation.

Inverse of a father to his men. The fair weather mentor is often this. See also engineered heroism, fake ultimate hero.

