This trope comes into play when the supreme deity of a given setting is not just a mere jerkass — he/she/it is actively malevolent, a jealous, callous, sadistic, monstrous tyrant who created the world or universe to be such a miserable crapsack world, preparing disproportionate retribution and an easy road to hell for everybody else.







The classic problem of evil tends to be invoked in this trope, along with the irrationality of religious extremism. People foolish enough to try a religious russian roulette to get a god like this to answer their prayers are unlikely to like the result.

In some works, this being is the supreme deity of a fantasy pantheon, while in others, the being is a powerful monotheistic deity, with some works casting the big guy himself — or his nearest fantasy analogue — in the role. Sometimes, the being calling itself a god (or the God) isn't one (often to lessen the offense that religious readers might obviously feel when this trope comes in play); its powers are just so close to omnipotent that it makes no difference.

Narratives about a God that is both omnipotent and malevolent, and how we puny humans can cope with its abominable existence, can result in a cosmic horror story, which is based on the complete helplessness and despair of us puny earthlings under the powers of an alien reality-warping madness-inducing entity. But while the eldritch abominations and strange gods of your average cosmic horror story will at least leave you alone if you don't seek them out, a malevolent supreme god can be an absolute nightmare, scrutinizing our every thought and toying with us against our will, with us having little to no hope in doing anything about it.

The video game variants of this trope, however, lean on lovecraft lite and rage against the heavens, offering a hope of the ability to kill this "omnipotent", probably thanks to narrativium that somehow serves to negate the omnipotent's omnipotence, or with help from a good opposite. If God Is Evil, then the anti-god may well be the big good.

In settings that take the controversial stance of God being evil, it is not uncommon for his infernal opposite to be good. Or for his son to be way cool. This isn't strictly necessary, however, especially in darker crapsack worlds whose authors take a more humanistic and/or existential stance on things.

Ninety-eight times out of one hundred, where an evil supreme god is in charge of things, you will also find a knight templar. Whether or not that person (or group) follows this evil supreme deity is entirely dependent on the knight's alignment.

truth in television: this viewpoint is older than feudalism. Already Greek philosophers considered the Olympian deities to be nothing but malevolent bullies and Atheism as a concept is far older than Monotheistic religions. Lucian (2nd C) wrote a lengthy essay on why the Greco-Roman deities were evil, to boot. Likewise, the Norse sagas were full of description of Vikings who were goðlauss (godless)-they actively disdained the Norse deities, instead relying on themselves.

This trope can also be called dystheism, or maltheism. These are beliefs that a monotheistic god is (respectively) lazy or evil. This trope is often found in rage against the heavens plots (and will likely invoke misotheism — hatred of God or the gods), and is a common belief of nay theists.

Compare and contrast gnosticism, everybody hates hades, god of evil, god is inept and god is flawed. The flip side is satan is good. See Also: god and satan are both jerks, devil but no god, neglectful precursors, jerkass gods for when the deities are not really evil but just neglectful, abusive precursors for when this so called creator is beyond just guilty. Definitely the polar opposite of god is good.

