the kingdom: A lovely, wealthy country ruled by a benevolent king, a wise prince, and a fair princess loved by the populace. But what's that? There's a queen? Oh brother, we're in trouble.

While kings and princes can be good or evil and princesses are always good, queens tend to be the royalty version of always chaotic evil. Restrained by a competent king, this usually doesn't show, but once a queen is in charge, things get nasty. Either the king is missing or died in an accident (the queen might have helped things along herself), or he's easily manipulated for some reason. Note that there are good queens in fiction, but they normally don't stay around for very long, or at all. And this trope comes into play whether they are ruling in their own right or as regents for the under-age king. (The latter group tends to fall under my beloved smother, as well.)

Subverted pretty much every time the lovely princess becomes queen mid or end-story, or when the queen was a princess in a prequel to the story, and when the princess rules the kingdom much like a queen would, and is only princess in title. Good queens don't need to be listed. They are simply the high queen.

If the evil queen is in charge of a hive mind, she is by definition a hive queen. Also overlaps with matriarchy (particularly the Straw Matriarchy) and sometimes evil matriarch.

The idea that "only a fool would want to be ruled by a woman" played heavily into the lives of real life queens in history — even if their rule might have been decent or competent, many queens tended to be viewed with suspicion or contempt by their male underlings. this is particularly true if the queen's manners and sexual habits were similar to those of powerful men. Another reason was that very often queens were foreigners to the countries of which they became queens (through marriage) and therefore became victim to xenophobic prejudices, especially if there arose a conflict of interests or even a shooting war between the queen's native and adopted countries.

In terms of the ranks of authority tropes, the tropes that are equal are the high queen, the woman wearing the queenly mask, she is the king, the good king and president evil. The next steps down are the evil prince, prince charming, prince charmless, warrior prince, princely young man, the wise prince, and all princess tropes. The next step up is the emperor.

sister trope and evil counterpart of the high queen. Also compare the caligula.

