professional wrestling writers are known to use every dirty trick in the book to make a heel hated, and Gorgeous George is one of the most basic tricks there is. Gorgeous George is an effeminate pretty-boy who, if he's not an outright cross-dresser, at least dresses, looks, and acts very androgynous. He wears sequined robes and feather boas, he keeps his hair perfectly coiffed, his nails perfectly manicured, and if somebody hits him in the face, watch out! By presenting an effete image, coupled with the standard heel tactics of lying and cheating, he inflames the anger of the crowd. Gorgeous George never outright says that he's gay - it's constantly implied and hinted at, but if he actually admitted it, it wouldn't be Gorgeous George anymore.

The original Gorgeous George was george wagner, who began wrestling in the 1930s, making this trope older than television. Wagner became popular in the wrestling circuit for his outrageous character, and with the advent of television became one of the biggest celebrities of the era. muhammad ali and james brown both credited Wagner as part of their inspiration for their own flamboyant behavior, and it may require two separate wikis to list everyone whom THEY have influenced/inspired. Subsequent wrestlers took on similar personae, including Johnny B. Badd, Rico, Goldust (who subverted the trope by turning face), "the model" rick martel, and "Adorable" Adrian Adonis.

See also sissy villain, depraved homosexual, depraved bisexual and psycho lesbian. Contrast the fighting narcissist whose sexuality is rarely questioned and the Exotico, a professional wrestler who is not ambiguous about their sexuality (be it gay or otherwise) whose fighting style revolves around emasculating their opponents.

    Valtome from  One of the characters in  Zhang He in  Mocked in a   On the  In the  Nong Toom was a kathoey (or "ladyboy") Muay Thai kick boxer, who would enter matches wearing make up and even kissing defeated opponents. She eventually used the money made as a kick boxer to get gender reassignment surgery.

