A character with a hair-trigger temper flies into a rage at the slightest provocation. Masters of disproportionate retribution, they react explosively to the slightest annoyance. Unlike someone with a berserk button, who is generally calm until a specific button is pressed, characters with a hair-trigger temper can be set off by anything. This makes them far less predictable — and far more dangerous.

In comparison to the "avoid the big red button" approach with someone with a berserk button, conversation with someone like this is like trying to navigate a minefield without a metal detector. You know the danger is there, but you have no clue exactly where it is. At best he's tetchy and anxiety-inducing. At worst, he's a surly, dangerous, ticking time bomb. The very act of talking to them might be enough to set them off. Trying to joke with them is downright suicidal. Many of these characters don't need a reason; they want an excuse. Extra points if they then pull a why did you make me hit you?, to make the "offender" look like the bad guy. Even just trying to stay away from them won't necessarily help; they're likely to take being ignored or avoided as a deliberate snub, and... well, you get the picture.

Characters with a hair-trigger temper are generally grumpy to everybody, but they usually have a favorite victim for their rampages — often a naïve newcomer who doesn't understand how they keep managing to offend the guy. This can be harmful to the victim's health — while heroic characters generally restrain themselves to verbal abuse, anti villainous ones can get physically violent, and out-and-out villainous ones may even kill people for annoying them. However, such characters are essentially bullies — if someone tougher or higher ranked than them tells them to knock it off, they probably will, at least for the moment. In a four-temperament ensemble, this character is Choleric.

This can obviously have disastrous consequences though if they let their temper get the better of them far too often. Expect the victim who has taken too much abuse to suddenly snap in front of them with sudden and alarming reversal of roles, where the abuser's rage now pales in comparison to their victims.

The real life disorder associated with this trope is Intermittent Explosive Disorder.

Compare drama queen (who acts dramatic at the drop of a hat).

Contrast extreme doormat (who will not respond angrily to anything), passive-aggressive kombat, rage breaking point. The particularly psychotic examples almost always overlap with ax-crazy. doesn't blow up too, unfortunately.

