So the villain and hero are having another therapy session and begin getting on the topic of the current conflict of the story. The hero is about to mention or is already explaining why the villain fails at life. But then something happens that the band of heroes didn’t expect. The villain begins presenting an argument...and people are agreeing with him.

Usually found in more cynical works in the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism, the villain is shown exchanging words with the band of heroes that cannot be ignored. He isn’t toying with them or telling them technical truths for selfish motivations. Hannibal, indeed, is trying to make a point.

This isn’t to say that good is dumb. For unlike breaking them by talking, this trope isn't meant to tear down the hero to show how pathetic they are. It’s merely there to show that throughout all the encounters good and evil have with each other in a story, one exchange of dialogue from the dark side is reasonable. It may make more sense than how the good guys are going about an issue. This may even result in a face-heel turn from one of the heroes after hearing the villain’s side of the story.

This trope is usually found in (very likely to be philosophical) works to show that not everything is black and white in morality and will make the viewer question where the line of moral event horizon begins. An example of this is the armor-piercing question, what is evil?In order to qualify, the character must be a villain. It doesn’t particularly matter when they turn to the dark side, but they must already be a villain in order to present this type of reasoning. Any type of villain can qualify. But they cannot be anti-heroes or on a neutral side, since this would eliminate the special kind of conflict this trope invokes.

Compare with strawman has a point, its sister trope. strawman has a point happens when an author unintentionally sets up the villain to have more legitimate arguments for his actions than the hero makes him out to be, and thus a product of bad writing; while Hannibal Has a Point occurs when the villain is purposefully meant to be stating sensible points for his motives that take the hero by surprise. Someone might come out and say that the villain has a point, but the context of the story might allude strongly enough to this trope as well. Actions of the other characters reacting to the villains' argument must be noted if it is the latter. Related to the extremist was right, which is what happens when the villain is so right, well... it works. See also jerkass has a point.

 A double subversion played with Paptimus Scirocco from    In   In      Sultan Mehmed of    The conspiracy in  The Witch of     Achilles, leader of the titular superhero team in the    Amon from 