

A character whose intended role in the story (the role the authors made for him/her) is to be so despicable that the audience wants him or her to fail just as much as they want the heroes to succeed.

In many cases, this is not simply the big bad of the story. Let's say we have a cast of perfectly likable protagonists, reasonable and sympathetic villains, and bob. Bob is not the main antagonist, and is usually not a villain at all. He is not causing the struggle that the heroes must overcome, but he is making the heroes' lives more difficult. His list of character traits includes selfishness, stubbornness, greed, holier-than-thou contempt, cowardice, and an inexhaustible penchant for making bad decisions. may also be [[Jerkass rude and obnoxious]]. Basically, Bob exists to be hated. Everything he does and everything he says is designed to make the audience yearn for his death just a little bit more. If we see his eventual downfall — and we usually do — it is just as satisfying as the writers can possibly make it. A particularly pointed karmic death is always a nice touch.

An especially common flavor of this character in recent decades is the politically incorrect villain.

The Hate Sink is typically found in stories that do not have a natural target for the audience's scorn. Common environments for this weasel are:

 Disaster and killer-animal stories, since you can't  Stories set in a prison, the army, or some other institutional setting which is regarded as an unpleasant but necessary piece of social equipment.

 Works where the protagonist's struggle is against something personal and nebulous — say, a feeling that he is in a dead-end job and hasn't achieved any of his dreams.

 Works which operate under  Works that have  Certain action movies where the villains are every bit as This trope is not the same as designated villain, which is a character who is put into the villain role for the sake of the plot, even though his or her actions are not particularly evil. A Hate Sink character may or may not be important to the story and does not need to advance the plot — if Bob is in a scene being loathsome, he is fulfilling his predestined role.

See also villainy-free villain. The heel is a variant specific to professional wrestling.

Contrast the scrappy, who is not designed to be hated but who garners a hatedom anyway. Often a smug snake.

This is not merely a place to complain about characters you hate. These can't just be a base breaker or the scrappy. They have to be designed for you to hate them. Otherwise, it's not this trope.

