A Heel is a professional wrestling bad guy. He's a hate sink the fans constantly boo, who lives to make the fans angry and menace their favorites. Heels are typically the antagonists of a pro wrestling storyline or "angle." The Lucha Libre equivalent is known as a rudo (in theory, rudo is more so an attitude about Lucha Libre as a whole, in practices rudos are almost always interchangeable with heels).

Fans may boo a heel for any number of reasons; he may be cowardly, cruel, cocky, arrogant, whiny, or any combination thereof. usually not for discriminatory reasons though...usually. See foreign wrestling heel, a recurring exception.

Sometimes a heel gets particularly popular with fans, and winds up undergoing a heel-face turn.

Note that heel heat is distinct from x-pac heat; fans want to see an effective heel get his comeuppance while they simply hate an X-Pac and want him off their screens entirely.

The color commentator often takes the heels' side, the better to egg the fans on. Also, expect a certain section of the Smarks to delight in the heels' victories.

It used to be all heels seemed to work together with no problems but lately some may draw the line, finding the actions of other heels unacceptable while not turning themselves. For example, triple h could call out the heel john bradshaw layfield for his racism while staying a heel himself.

The opposite of a heel is a face, the (usually) good guy that the fans cheer for. See also tweener (a guy who falls in between Face and Heel status, fighting either side as the situation calls for) and x-pac heat (when the fans hate the actual person). The heel face index has some more variations.

 Wolf (played by Michael Van Wijk) from   Super Macho Man from the Wii version of  Aran Ryan. Whenever he uses one of his ( Muhammad Ali based his entire public persona on pro-wrestling heels, reasoning that the trick of "get the audience so pissed off they'll pay to see someone beat you up" would work just as well in a real sport as a fake one. He was right.

 Jack Johnson was incredibly arrogant and would often gloat over his fallen opponents. Justified because he was a black fighter in the early 20th century and would have been considered a heel regardless of how he acted. He chose to act in a way that showed that he wasn't a pushover.

  A few wrestlers have carved out a name for themselves as specialized heels, often maintaining their heel persona off-screen as well.

 An interesting subversion occurred during the WWF "Attitude" era, where, in a cutthroat competition with Turner's WCW, allowed wrestlers to develop their own personas instead of fake, gimmicky characters that were by and large unsuccessful. The most successful examples were often  Managers can also be heels, as  Several wrestlers created the prototype for a particular type of heel, that is maintained to this day.

  The 2000s/2010s have seen the growth of the "popular heel". A popular heel is not a Tweener. They don't feud with other heels, or even have face qualities. They are an out and out heel character, but they get cheered by the fans anyway. This is usually because the heel is an extremely talented or charismatic wrestler, the audience love the character or gimmick so much that they go nuts cheering for their heel antics, the fans don't like the face they're up against in the feud and go off script by supporting the heel in the feud, or quite simply just because some fans enjoy cheering bad guys because bad guys are cool. Notable examples of wrestlers who have been popular heels at various points include Kurt Angle, Mickie James, CM Punk, Beer Money, and probably the  Xochitl la Terible in    Idra of the  In-universe example with   In "Mister Torgue's Campaign of Carnage," the DLC for Borderlands 2, the whole storyline is written like a pro wrestling arc, with the player character as the Face, and Piston as the cheating, cowardly, arrogant Heel.

 Bartolomeo from  Several characters in  Hawlucha, a  Discussed in one issue of the 

See you in the ring, sucker! Bring a towel to throw in!

