







Most mooks exist in video games for one reason and one reason only: to make your life hard (and your death easy). They touch you, they spit stuff at you, they push you around...

However, sometimes the designers mix things up at bit, and you'll run into a helpful mook. While they look like mooks, walk like mooks, and talk like mooks—they even generally show up on your enemy scan as a baddie—these guys aren't as dangerous as their companions. They generally come in two flavors:

  May be used as a form of fairy battle. Compare savage setpiece.

 The Walking Bushie enemy in  The Mamuta in the  The Zebon enemy in  Pixies in  The Nurses from    Rippers are enemies that are found in many   Give certain rare enemies in  Whereas most moving objects on the screen are deadly to touch, the Green Ball in  In  In  The Camelia Smiles in   A good amount of the random foes in  In Vivendi Universal's  In  In  In   In the first  In  The Muddy Buddy in  There's an insectoid enemy in     The Tricker/Li'l Murderer enemy from    Bubbles in  In The Legend of Spyro: A New Beginning, the level Dante's Freezer is full of these. There are two kinds of enemies, apes and ice soldiers, and since they are at war with each other, they'll often show up to kill each other in the middle of a battle. One notable instance is when you come across a huge fortress stuffed full of ice soldiers, but before they even see you, an ape runs over and blows the ENTIRE thing up, killing everyone (including himself). Dreadwings also have a habit of dropping bombs on hordes of ice soldiers even while you're still fighting them.

 Similar to the  In the obscure Nintendo 64 platformer  In   Every single transformation causing enemy in  The famous  Due to how aggressively the AI functions in  Part of  A number of bosses in  Vultures, dragonflies and flying beetles in the  The enemies in  The enemies in the Wii version of  In   The rocket zombie, a popular enemy in  Stretching the definition of  In the monster hunter series, since the various mooks can deal scratch damage, they may ultimately assist you in killing huge enemies and even their own leader.

 Robots in  In     The haunted burger enemies in  In  In    In 