Usually, not quite a villain, but they act antagonistically enough that they're little better. Something has happened to our fallen hero: his village was destroyed, his friends killed, his puppy roasted on an open spit, his bike stolen, whatever. All that matters is that it's personal, and he feels that the law just isn't suitable enough (or has become too corrupt and ignorant) to be of any use to him in settling the matter. He may justify his actions by claiming that it's justice he's after, not vengeance, but anyone with half a brain can easily see that he's out for revenge... unfortunately, we can also see that the more he hunts the cause of his woes, the more he takes on the villain's personality and mannerisms — something that our "hero" is too blinded by his single-minded goal to realize.

He may have good intentions — the fiend may well be too dangerous to be kept alive — but ultimately, his obsession with meting out due punishment (or worse) and his refusal to think about what he's doing twists him into a monster just as bad as, or even worse than, the one he's hunting. And even before he gets to that point, it's nigh-impossible to turn him away; calling him out on it will be ignored or retaliated against. the power of friendship and the power of love were lost to him the moment the atrocity that sent him on his wild goose chase happened, and he feels that team spirit is just a hindrance; heel realizations will be ignored. Don't expect him to make a heroic sacrifice or heel-face turn anytime soon; if he dies in the process of bringing his nemesis down, it's usually with him crossing into Villainstown in his moment of glory. If he doesn't die...The "fighting monsters" line represents what is a recognizable moral event horizon for heroes, and both antiheroes and well intentioned extremists live just near the boundary, especially the more pitiless good is not nice, knight templar, unfettered, pragmatic hero types. Engaging in van helsing hate crimes is a good indicator of having crossed the boundary.

As expected, this twisted situation is very popular in the Revenge tragedy genre, especially because of its inherent dramatic irony . This trope can also be used to demonstrate how "eye-for-an-eye" justice, while sounding like sweet karmic equivalent exchange Justice at first, can easily spiral out into utter chaos if the hero lets his passions, wrath, and pride forego rationality.

Not to be confused with complete monster, although somebody can well become one by fighting such monsters. They can range from antihero to anywhere above. See also cycle of revenge, the dark side will make you forget, protagonist journey to villain, you are what you hate, then let me be evil, and became their own antithesis. If this trope happens to a child, it can be used as a freudian excuse. Compare and then john was a zombie, where the character becomes a literal monster. if you kill him, you will be just like him is pretty much a sped-up version of this. Political equivalents are reign of terror, full-circle revolution, and meet the new boss. If the monster in question is an animal, that's animal nemesis. If the monster is supernatural, it's a decidedly unheroic instance of the hunter. Subtrope of slowly slipping into evil.

Not to be confused with Those Who Hunt Elves, the fanfic He Who Fights Monsters (though this one is an example), or Monster Hunter.

