We know that the despair event horizon is a line that when someone crosses it, then they have lost all hope. The crosser may remain a good person, or they may turn evil.

The Hope Crusher is someone who enjoys pushing people toward the despair event horizon.

They love the sense of despair. When other people lose hope, they take pleasure in it. It's not necessary for them to be the one to push them into despair (although they often are); however, they cherish the feelings of despair of many people around them, especially when directed to them. They might not be emotion eaters, but they sure feel good when people around them despair. Since the sense of despair is something people usually try to avoid at all cost, liking despair so much and inflicting it on others are a good indication for the audience that this character is evil.

They will be very fond of the despair gambit. They will often give a hope spot to their victims, and then yank it away as the last seconds, mostly thinking that despair is at its finest when the last ray of hope is destroyed right in front of their eyes. If they would instill hope is scary, the merrier! don't expect them to enjoy their own despair, though. most of the time.Has a very high chance to be a complete monster, since their goals are more likely to be for the evulz (this is often seen in the generic doomsday villain) though this isn't always the case.

A popular non for the evulz explanation for this sort of character is an inability to experience positive emotions themselves coupled with a jealousy for other's happiness and wanting them to be just a miserable as he is. There are also some villains that believe that despair is necessary, and don't seek pleasure in destroying hopes and dreams, but do so because they think they have to.

Note: targeting just one specific person to make them miserable doesn't make a character a Hope Crusher, to be this trope the character has to have a desire to make everyone around him or her miserable or have a specific plan in effect to make large groups of people miserable for that purpose alone.

Contrast with hope bringer. Also compare with sadist, someone who delights in someone else's pain and suffering, but the Hope Crusher can occasionally overlap with how they dislike the concept of hope and likes it better when their victims are pushed into the depths of despair. Can also overlap with those who believe that dystopia justifies the means. Sometimes overlaps with darker trolls if they specifically aim to destroy other's happiness.

