They're strange. They're foreign. they come from the east. And there's a lot of them. Maybe it's because they're always chaotic evil, or maybe we're just next in a line of civilizations to be conquered, but they're out to get us.

This trope arose a long time ago from bad experiences and sometimes just general xenophobia. While the more bigoted aspect of the trope is no longer fashionable, it still survives thanks to follow the leader and the need for an easy source of danger and disposable enemies. Internal life of the hordes isn't usually depicted much, if at all. They are foreign, they are evil, and that's all that matters."The East" comes from the typical placement of the "others" in real life Western Europe. The usual candidates for the hordes include Mongols, Muslims, Huns, Hungarians, Scythians, or Russians, or fantasy counterpart cultures of them. Like several of these cultures, they're likely to have been born in the saddle. They'll sometimes look stereotypically Asian, but they aren't criminal masterminds like the yellow peril - they're just a mass of mooks born to be mooks.

A culture can even be on both sides of the trope. Russians are a source of Hordes for Western Europe, but they themselves endured Mongol control for some centuries - it's a popular trope in Russian folk tales.

The hordes from the east will often act like the horde, but they don't have to. Hordes From the East will always be presented as a feared foreign danger, but their behavior can vary. There's a chance that they don't pillage at all, or that they use clever strategies in battle instead of just brute force.

Some cultures have their own tropes involving attacks from a particular direction. For example, an attack would have always come from the North/West in China, from the North-West in India, and from the North in Rome. Another variant is to have hordes from up north, Vikings or Norse barbarians.

      The  The title character of  Deconstructed with the Aiel from  Played straight with the Angarak nations in  In     The Skorne in    Caesar's Legion from   The Dragonkin in  The Khergit Khanate from   Parodied in  Hordes from the east did, in fact, attack Europe and the Middle East (and India and China, but it is "hordes from the north" in  The Great Viking Army that invaded England in 865.

  The Ottoman Empire was a prime example of this trope to the countries of Central and Southeastern Europe - being Muslims, the Ottomans were always presented as the supreme threat to Christian civilization. It doesn't help that they also spoke a language very different to the local ones.

