No, this trope is not about humanitarianism. Quite the opposite, in fact.

Cannibalism is considered one of the greatest taboos, so, naturally, it's become a trope. One idea which stands out is that human flesh is superficially similar to swine flesh, hence the nickname "long pig" and the phrase "eating the long pork". A robot designed to taste wine corroborates this idea. Thus, it should be delicious, which is reflected both in hannibal lecter's gourmet taste and in the idea in Sweeney Todd that pies with this ingredient would sell like hotcakes.

You'll often have people eat something and not know what it is, and then discover the ghastly truth, such as in many an inn of no return.

A mostly discredited trope (see the second Pirates of the Caribbean movie for an exception) is a variation that portrays members of non-Europeansocieties as cannibalistic, often attempting to cook visiting europeans in a pot. See cannibal film.

In speculative fiction, cannibalism is generally extended to include all sapient or humanoid creatures, even if they aren't technically human. Any species that includes humans (or other humanoids) in its diet is usually portrayed as villainous, as is any species that routinely eats members of its own social group. Likewise, humans treating other sapient species as food are rarely treated sympathetically (unless what measure is a non-human? is in effect).

to various degrees, anthropophagy is usually expected of zombie mooks.

If the cannibal systematically hunts down people on a regular basis so he/she can eat them, they'll be a serial killer as well.

A subtrope of i ate what? and human resources. Can also involve carnivore confusion without furries (or maybe with furries - see the paragraph on speculative fiction above.) See to serve man for the alien invasion version of eating people. brain food for those not interested in mere muscles. See also let's meet the meat. Compare no party like a donner party, in which persons are forced into cannibalism due to starvation. And when you get down to the bitter dregs, there's auto cannibalism. Also see fattening the victim, where people are fattened before being eaten.

Subtropes:                