Don't bother running. He'll chase you to the ends of the earth. Don't bother fighting. He'll shrug off anything you throw at him. Don't bother reasoning with him. He wants you dead and he WILL have it.

This is the threat that implacably, unrelentingly comes after you. This guy will hunt you down no matter what you do or where you go, even after you try relatively ordinary measures. Bullets may hurt him, but they'll never kill him. Swords may pierce him, but he's likely to pull it out and stab you with it. Even a rocket launcher will probably just slow him down. Even if you do manage to escape, don't relax, he'll always find you. Lock the doors if you want, he'll just use super strength to pull you through the wall.Unlike the determinator, an Implacable Man is more likely powered by science or magic than willpower. It is going to take some serious applied phlebotinum to defeat them. The highly sought-after macguffin might do the trick... maybe. there is no kill like overkill. If this guy's the big bad, you probably won't be able to either way; the most you can hope for is to fend him off until he resurfaces again. And he will resurface; it's just a question of time.

Of course, comical Implacable Men are still just as prone to mundangers as anyone else. As a result, it makes for a powerful moment when they're shown to be not so invincible after all.

This isn't exclusively a villain trope either. get a hero mad enough or if they want to get you bad enough, they're just as likely to invoke this as determinator. They will typically go into tranquil fury, and these occasions are normally depicted via mook horror show. The slow walk is a similar phenomenon.

Compare the determinator, who doesn't give up despite extreme injury as a result of heroic spirit. Compare the juggernaut, who is to this trope what a tank is to a hunting dog—put an obstacle in the Implacable Man's way and he'll find a way to get past it, but put an obstacle in the juggernaut's way and he'll trample over it as if it weren't even there.

See also hero killer, the man they couldn't hang, immortal assassin, perpetual-motion monster, and perfect play a.i.. Usually a certifiable badass. Lends himself well to being the Goliath in a david versus goliath situation, if a villain, or an inducer of mook horror show and villainous valour if an (anti)hero. Often shows up in video games as an advancing boss of doom, invincible minor minions, demonic spiders or a damage-sponge boss/marathon boss/some variant of that one boss.

