A fictional character who is insane (in the psychotic, out of touch with reality way) is usually also violent. Thus, in typical TV-land logic, if you become psychotic, you must also become violent—even if you never were before.

A character who already resorts to violence will turn on their friends instead of fighting whatever enemy they usually fight.

What's more, the fictional psychotic will not only be invariably violent, they'll actually be more lethally effective than a sane person. Count on the villainous psychotic to be a nigh-unstoppable assassin who's mastered offscreen teleportation rather than, say, a poor deluded individual uselessly arguing with or attacking their own hallucinations, or getting caught during their very first crime because they weren't trying to escape.

This is usually used to enhance the frightening aspect of a character, since psychosis makes them unpredictable and their behavior unfamiliar. In a fight, they have terrifying confusion fu. Many slasher-film villains are insane; most characters perceived as psychotic are also violent and unpredictable. The very connotation of "escaped lunatic" is that of a violent person, an urban-myth trope that goes back as far as the first mental asylums. The same goes for "psycho", "madman", and "insane", all of which commonly imply violence or evil (or both).

Despite that over one third of the World population qualify as mentally ill at some point, as you can see on TV Tropes itself, media coverage of mental illness is mainly comprised of extremely negative and derogatory depictions, for example, of incompetence, violence or criminality, with far less coverage of positive issues such as accomplishments or human rights issues. In 1999, characters in prime time television portrayed as having a mental illness were depicted as the most dangerous of all demographic groups, with 60 percent shown to be involved in crime or violence. Such negative depictions, including in children's cartoons, are thought to contribute to stigma and negative attitudes in the public and in those with mental health problems themselves, although more sensitive or serious cinematic portrayals have increased in prevalence.

Technically, this can very occasionally be truth in television: People with mental illnesses do commit slightly more violent crime than average. but it's not anywhere nearly as common as media would imply. In fact, they are actually more than eleven times more likely to be victims of violence. Alcohol and drug abuse are associated much more strongly with violence, and when you account for the increased prevalence of drug and alcohol abuse among those with mental illnesses, the extra risk of violence vanishes completely... but that's not as interesting.

This is becoming more of a discredited trope, thankfully, as more writers are leaning towards interesting motives for violence, but still lingers on in the horror genre. This trope is also loaded with unfortunate implications, as talking to a mentally ill person would more than likely result in an interesting conversation about the likelihood that the spaghetti there on the stove isn't real or a lot of that person's special interests than it would in your death.

See also: ax-crazy.

