heroes win. It's a general rule of fiction. Sometimes, though, you want the hero to lose a few battles. As a result, you have an occasional instance of the bad guy wins. This also shows another generally good consequence: the importance of the struggle, the need to make an effort, and the necessity of character development. Often, the challenge is tied to a singular villain (generally a big bad) to build up a reasonable threat. This is usually good, as it simplifies the cast, has a standard deuteragonist, etc.

However, just because a hero can't win all the time, that doesn't mean they can't win ever. And just because villains can win, that doesn't mean a villain can win all the time. Both of these are problems. And they share an extreme. This is the Invincible Villain. This character is basically a walking personification of victory is boring, for the audience.

any "losses" that occur either help the villain more than outright victory or are ambiguous if he lost or won, or the cavalry shows the hero can't win on their own. Plus, it's expected in the short term; you can't thwart stage one! Doesn't matter how hard the determinator trains, the villain is always two steps ahead. That head start, of course, is a given when villains act, heroes react. Even if there is a complete defeat, they'll still be subject to joker immunity or cardboard prison. This of course tends to rob a given episode or movie franchise of dramatic punch when the viewer's reaction to a hero's actual win is "like you would really do it!"

The Invincible Villain is the guy who makes the audience react in one of two ways.

 "Oh my GOD, would somebody beat this guy already?"

 "A poorly executed outside-context villain can become this, but after a while, the hero may get used to the villain, and without the element of surprise, may be overcome. failure hero is a possible result of this trope. Deliberate villain decay is one way to counteract this by consciously making the villain less menacing, but can easily end up going too far in the other direction and reduce the villain to a joke if not handled carefully.

If taken to extremes, when a villain can't do anything other than win by some contrived reason, this trope turns into villain sue. The villain protagonist is especially at risk to this.

Contrast invincible hero, their good counterpart, and harmless villain, their exact opposite in terms of threat level.

Compare ineffectual sympathetic villain, the generally interesting, vincible villain.

See also generic doomsday villain, which is treated more like an obstacle for the hero to overcome rather than a true character.

As this trope frequently involves the conclusion of the story, beware of spoilers.