Generally speaking, a literal genie will make logical, if basic interpretations of a wish. Nothing more and nothing less than what the wish explicitly states. This is so that when a wish backfires, we can laugh at the foolishness of whoever made the wish, as opposed to the genie, who's just doing their job.

Sometimes, though, the literal interpretation just isn't enough. Try as we might, there simply aren't that many wishes which can be literally interpreted to mean "Turn me blue." So when the humiliation really needs to pile on, the Jackass Genie has to make an appearance.

What differentiates the Jackass Genie from the Literal Genie is sheer malice. This creature has it in for whoever has the misfortune of being his master, and will make whatever bizarre interpretation is necessary to make the master's life a living hell. A Literal Genie will grant the wish as is, with no additional magic good or bad. The Jackass Genie will be the precise opposite of the benevolent genie, inserting the absolute worst version of any wish.

Wish for a hot girlfriend? The Literal Genie will give her a fever (or maybe hook you up with a fire demon). The Jackass Genie will set her on fire. Try to head it off and wish for an attractive girlfriend? The Literal Genie will make her magnetic. The Jackass Genie will make her attract tigers. Wish for a beautiful girlfriend? The Literal Genie will give you a brainless beauty. The Jackass Genie will give you a beautiful ax-crazy girlfriend who has killed all her previous lovers horribly. Wish for some long overdue social reform? The Literal Genie will create a stagnant society that lacks the conflict necessary for growth, while the Jackass will always opt for an oppressive dystopia where the fanatics who make your side look bad have won out. Wish for a million dollars? The Literal Genie will give you one million Zimbabwean dollars (worth less than one u.s. cent) because you never specified which country's dollar, while the Jackass Genie will just give you a million copies of the same $1 banknote, and call the police on you for counterfeiting.

In short, you just can't win; no matter what you wish for, the Jackass Genie will find a way to twist it so you end up worse off. Expect him to milk exact words and metaphorically true for all they're worth. And taking the Literal Genie approach of making your wish very specific is nothing but a trap. Unless you know a rule that he absolutely has to follow, he'll just move the goalposts and screw you over anyway: "Oh, the words you used mean something else in a very obscure dialect in another dimension." Assuming he doesn't just flat-out lie and claim to have "misheard" you, knowing you can't prove him wrong.

You can also expect a Jackass Genie to interpret anything you say as a wish, even if you didn't intend to make one. Never say "I wish I were dead" when this particular genie is within earshot. Your "wish" will be granted. Even the Literal Genie tends to have a tenuous grasp of the concept of hyperbole. Even worse, he may just suddenly set you on fire because "You didn't wish not to be set on fire".

As you can plainly see, oftentimes the Jackass Genie just seems to be taking cheap shots at characters who are literally helpless before him. As a result, expect him to be the clear villain in when he appears. The Literal Genie can be excused somewhat if they're just naturally ditzy or are trying to teach you a lesson about being careful what you wish for, but the Jackass Genie can lay no such claim. If there is any lesson to be learned with them, it might be "if an offer seems too good to be true, it is" — after all, this genie acts like a supernatural con man, and you always had the option to walk away and/or wish none of this ever happened. If you literally wish for the latter however, don't be too surprised if the genie erases either you, the entire earth, or the universe from history. morton's fork may apply.

Genie jackassery is a natural repercussion of the original mythology, since most wish-granting djinn were spirits imprisoned and enslaved by sorcerers (usually this specific one) and are rather unhappy with their servitude. As such, they will take every opportunity to screw over their master. Genies following this tradition are basically sending an aesop that "you shouldn't consort with magical beings, full stop". Nowadays that might be because "hard work is good for you" or "wanting is better than having".

Has nothing to do with fitting johnny knoxville in a bottle (or the other way round, knowing him).

Compare with deal with the devil. Due to their common motivation, many of them are also trolls.

