There are certain mentalities that create jerkasses, or at least allow them to tolerate themselves. They come in many versions, but most of them boil down to one of three justifications:

: "Kindness is weakness and nice guys finish last. If you want to get ahead in this world, you have to be ruthless, mean, and manipulative."

: "I'm right and all these peasants are wrong, so it's OK to treat them like crap just to hammer my point in. The stock phrase "I'm not a jerk, i just don't suffer fools" may be used in their defense, the implied insult of which only serves to prove the accuser's point."

: "that's just the way i am, and I can't (or don't care to) change. If anyone doesn't like it, they can deal with it!"

straw nihilists, manipulative bastards and jerkasses of every type will self-righteously spout one of these philosophies whenever called out on their hostility, arrogance, and general pissy behavior.

Just because an author believes this about a character doesn't mean that every sympathetic character in the story should view the character as a justified jerk. In real life, some people have a hard time dealing with people who act abrasively and are unlikely to know why they act like jerks in the first place. Having everyone make excuses for the character in the story itself may result in jerk sue.

when the fans do this on their own, a draco in leather pants is born. See also what the hell, hero?, a frequent response to jerk justifications. If a character's jerk justifications are the result of painful experience, can result in a jerkass woobie.

 Your average   Nabiki from  Souther of   Guy of Gisborne from  ''And that's how  A common justification for cliques, trolls, internet bullies and doxing (fishing for people's personal information or using it against them). Of course, the instant any of this stuff happens to THEM you can expect them to drop their "morality" like a sack of hammers.

  Silver from  In  Galatea ("Golly") from  Lelouch from  Tywin Lannister (and pretty much every other  Every      Most characters with  This is usually the justification for the  Sawyer from  Gene Simmons and Ted Nugent have used this in  "Take Me Or Leave Me," from   Sam Puckett on  Damon on   The final example on  Don John in  In  This is definitely  House, from  All three types tend of show up on    Barney Stinson from  Reynauld de Chatilllon from  For some people, especially if one browses internet forums long enough, hang around trolls and jerkasses long enough and you might start to become a jerk yourself and justify it by saying "everyone else is doing it, so I may well be one as well."

