Face it, some big bads stay popular enough it might be a bad idea to kill them for real. So they may stick around or keep coming back, but too much of this can start to undermine a (super)hero's perceived effectiveness. While a work focusing on a single hero or group can hand wave this as perhaps what's necessary to end the villain for good being beyond their moral code, it can get more egregious if the fictional universe starts to get larger and more interconnected, and the villain keeps pissing off more and more people. This leads to the question of why some of those other folks with a lot fewer qualms against killing haven't put a bullet in them yet.

This ends up being a question of whether the villain is just that good, or the writers are delaying things and stretching the patience of the audience. (Or maybe it's just that a wizard did it.)

Aside from rationalizations given in the story itself, most reasons for trope are outside the story in the form of contractual immortality:

 The villain is very popular and lucrative, so franchises with indefinite continuity are hesitant to get rid of them. Particularly the  The story exists in a particular continuity or on a  The villain, especially those in a  The struggle against a single major villain is the  The series is being shown in  The villain is a real person Note that in all cases this immunity can and will be revoked if the character is waning in popularity; victims of villain decay can become outright c-list fodder for any author wanting to show off. Also, when the next step in the sorting algorithm of evil appears, the dethroned villain is liable to lose his Joker Immunity (often at the hands of the new villain, showing how badass he is).

Compare: villain exit stage left; moral dissonance; cardboard prison; tailor-made prison; and occasionally villain sue. For the heroic equivalent, see invincible hero. Also see just eat gilligan when it's not a direct villain that's the problem. See also villain-based franchise for one of the products of this kind of thing. See also popularity power, where a character will get things his way because of his popularity, and karma houdini, where the villain escapes temporal as well as cosmic punishment. See also superhero movie villains die for when characters known for Joker Immunity have more permanent stays in the afterlife when adapted to the silver screen.

