Giant Japanese monsters that assault tokyo, hapless island explorers, or each other are called Kaiju.

Typically they arrive from somewhere Far Away. Whether that means space, beneath the earth, or a South Pacific island varies. Expect lots of stuff blowing up to result, but, since giant equals invincible, don't expect the explosions to actually hurt them. Do expect at least one case of helicopter flyswatter. Examples of this genre can range from straight-up disaster movie (Cloverfield, the first Godzilla movie) to all-out wrestling matches between people in rubber suits (Most of the later godzilla movies). As this genre features a judicious application of rule of cool, expect the mst3k mantra to be in full effect. Often, you'll only watch this kind of movie to see the monsters fight, which can often involve an ultimate showdown of ultimate destiny (such as )

This is actually one of the oldest genres in film, dating back to the early days of cinema when special effects were new. Pioneers of the genre were   and The Lost World. The idea probably originates from thinking of dinosaurs as fantastic beasts or ideas about giant dragons. As for why it's so popular with Japanese media: Japan is quite earthquake and tsunami-prone, and a kaiju is basically a giant sentient natural disaster, so it may feel more meaningful to them. (Consider how Godzilla, like a wave, rises from the sea.) Similarly, Japan is full of large insects like centipedes or rhinocerous beetles, which probably inspire kaiju as well. A Kaiju though will most of the time be a single specimen species, when even dragons often are a race of monsters. (Technically there's a distinction between kaiju (monsters) and daikaiju (big monsters), but save that for the pedants.)

rent-a-zilla is a sub-trope, where the work doesn't focus on the monster. A not zilla is a kaiju that is specifically an expy of godzilla. If kaiju offspring appear, expect gigantic adults tiny babies. In more modern works, kaiju are often afflicted with proportionately ponderous parasites.

Compare disaster movie, attack of the killer whatever, robeast, and attack of the 50-foot whatever. Has its roots in tokusatsu. Not to be confused with over the top gambling by pointy-nosed men.