Gorillas, orangutans, and sometimes chimpanzees: about the same size and shape as humans (normally), but tougher, hairier and generally meaner. Don't incite them to gorilla warfare, because the things they throw tend to hurt. They may also may like to squeeze people to death. Or pick them up and bash them to the ground.

In a nutshell, this trope is when gorillas and other great apes (excluding humans) are, contrary to their real usual behaviour, treated as belligerent, pugnacious creatures. It's pretty much been a discredited trope for gorillas (and orangutans) since at least the nineties. The sign that it was pretty much done for was when Disney's Tarzan adaptation changed the fictional Mangani of the original novels to gorillas to reflect how science has marched on. However, chimps are still subject to maniac monkeys after a nasty incident where a pet chimp gnawed the face off of his owner.

A subtrope of maniac monkeys. For other unlikable lower primates, see killer space monkey and cymbal-banging monkey. Related to bigfoot, sasquatch and yeti, another large, hairy and often dangerous hominid. For the lighter and softer relative of this trope, see everything's better with monkeys.

 Gorillamon from  Wyald, a  The Beast Titan, from  In   The second arc of  Don Martin drew a comic around the self-created holiday National Gorilla Suit Day (that's January 31st.) In it, recurring character Fester Bestertester is visited by several wearers of gorilla suits, many of them being actual killer gorillas who creatively mangle him several times.

 A comic book miniseries prequel to   One of the main characters in   In  Subverted in Disney's  Captain Gutt from  In  In  Tablat, the rogue silverback who takes over the Trazan's gorilla family in   In the  In the original   The film     In  After attacking its cruel circus trainer and escaping, a gorilla in    Towards the end of  In  The Librarian of the Unseen University from    A gorilla takes a brutal, if entirely justified revenge, on one of the villains at the climax of the   Kodo The Ape in   In one episode of  Lee Scratch Perry's albums  The  The backglass for  The gimmick of Nemesis, who frequents  Leva Bates in her gorilla gear, channeling  In Eugene O'Neill's play   Donkey Kong in the original   In  In  There is one hairy white gorilla in the Trophy Room in   The   Mechapon, a giant mechanical gorilla, appears as one of the Stage 2 mid-bosses in the  In the  In  Tublat from  In an episode of  In  The escaped circus ape in  Genghis Kong in  In   One really mean gorilla appears in the  Kiki from the  Gruesome Gorilla from  Lord Tirek from the  This trope especially comes into play when misguided humans, charmed by how much a baby chimpanzee resembles a human child, try to take one as a pet. The problem comes when this cute little chimp hits puberty and becomes a very strong, very aggressive primate easily strong enough to rip your arm off and beat you to death with it. Or if you're lucky they'll stop at merely ripping your face off.

   There's been some argument among paleontologists if extinct super-ape 