Maybe it's because they land somewhere in the uncanny valley. Maybe, as with the monster clown, it's because writers like subverting the traditionally "cute". Maybe it is a reflection of our savage ancestry. Maybe it's a remnant of our struggle with our differently-evolved cousins. Or maybe it's simply that everything's better with monkeys. Whatever the reason, killer simians make for good alien monsters.

Such extraterrestrial monkeys tend to be brutish killing machines - an intelligent alien ape is usually a subversion.

Yes, we know this should be called Killer Space Non-Human Primate. No, Earthly villains who happen to be actual apes are not Killer Space Monkeys.

See also maniac monkeys. May be a killer gorilla in space!. Not to be mistaken with apes in space, who are monkeys that go into space.

 The Saiyans from  A group of intelligent killer space monkeys appear in the  The Thunes in Mike Baron and Steve Rude's comic book  Titano from the  The  The Gorilla Swarm from  The aliens in  The Simeons in the  One variation is the   The Morlocks in the 2002 adaptation of    The Magog from  The Ogrons, a race of mercenary grunts often turning up as henchmen to the Daleks in  A Doctor Who spin-off novel revealed that the Soviet equivalent of UNIT was called OGRON (Operativnaya Grupo Razvedkoy Obyedinnyonich Natsii- United Nations Surveillance Operations Group); this is regarded as a metafictional in-joke.

  Goldar of   The Kromaggs, the product of parallel evolution on one of the worlds of  The Mugato from  An   Not so much  Another tabletop wargame,       While both the Grunts and the Elites from the first game have a substantial number of ape-like features,  Andross, the  The Cosmic Silverback in the  A literal case with General Skun'ka'pe in the third season of the  The Tarka from  The Purr-Lin in the  Kuja from  The  Despite having four arms, bullymongs from  The Drengin in    An episode of  An odd twist on the trope is the  The Lespuko from  There are apes (and other animals) in satellites within Earth's orbit. They are 