This is where a boss enemy resembles an enlarged or palette swapped version of a regular enemy, possibly with a crown or some other identifying feature. They may even be a mutant version, and will probably have an unimaginative name based on the enemy type they resemble.

However! Their attacks may be vastly different from those of the enemies they are based upon, or they may be identical but stronger. This mook is usually one of the varieties that can turn red, causing the player extra pain.

King Mook tends to be such by virtue of being large and in charge. He may be the result of a mook promotion, or he may always have been tougher than your average enemy character. The King Mook has a high chance of being a flunky boss, having several of its weaker forms fight alongside it. It could be a Mechanical Monster if the original mecha-mook it's based on is weird looking enough.

Compare giant mook. See also elite mooks and superpowered mooks. Contrast monster lord, when this is due to biology.

  There are lots of   Quite a few of the bosses in   This is something of a habit in the    In  The Alien Queen from   The Giant Met, boss of Wily Stage 1 of  King Coiley in the 2005 version of  King Poop Snake and Platinum Poop Snake (both optional bosses) in  The Giant Looper and Elcian (yet another,  The campaign for    In  Most of the  Roshan from    In  The first boss of the  The Item Worlds in the  The Goblin King and Demon Goblin Warrior from  Hey,  Practically every game in the  In  In  Most of the humanoids in     Almost every boss in  ''   The Super Tank(a giant Tank with a literal tank for a lower body) and the Hornet (a  '' Nearly all of the bosses in     Every boss in  On a related note, in   Nearly every boss in   Other than the final boss and the Big Daddies, all the bosses in  The Giant Womprat in  The Mega Hulk in the original  Many of the bosses in  The   The "Mother of All Hunters" and "Mother of All Cyborgs" in  Justified with the Mega Censor in   All monsters in  In the arcade version of   Almost all of the bosses in  The Giant Birds in   In     The  All of the minibosses in  The anticlimactic final boss of  The Crownéd Slime boss from     Haybot, Big Boner and The Experiment in  King RedEye in  Most of the dungeons in  The Pork Trooper in  Made Men in  The second boss, the Shadow Dancer from    In  Bosses of this type in the  A non-Video-Game example there is in     Most of the bosses in the   Bosses in the   Several monsters fought in the  The   King Pig and Mustache Pig/Foreman Pig in  The Three Wise Men in   Done for deliberate absurdity in  