Organized crime needs some kind of criminal underclass in order to exist. Criminal underclasses need some kind of social underclass in order to exist. And what group, historically, has generally been a social underclass? take a guess. Jewish mobsters are every bit as nasty as the other kinds, with the addition that they might have yiddish as a first language.In fiction, the Kosher Nostra are rare, probably because Jewish organized crime tends to be rolled into other, larger organized criminal groups. In truth, the Jewish community was often too small to be the single dominant organized mob, and Jewish mobsters often made strategic alliances with a larger group, often ending up serving as advisors and technicians. From about prohibition to some time in the 1960s or 1970s, the main allies were the italians. Nowadays, the Jewish mob is mostly focused in Israeli or russian mobs (and as such, are more likely to qualify as ruthless foreign gangsters). Still, they tend to pop up often enough in early-mid 20th century period pieces, particularly in los angeles and pre-Castro cuba.

The Jewish mobster in fiction is often characterized as a motor mouth, with a tendency to act polite and friendly until they get suddenly and horrifically violent. Comedic tropes applied to Jews usually are not applied to Kosher Nostra types - in other words, Jewish gangsters who argue and complain a lot (probably written by someone jewish) are rare.

Transparent no celebrities were harmed versions of the most famous real life examples, Meyer Lansky and Bugsy Siegel, are particularly common. (It was joked by Lansky's friends that he must have been "wet nursed by an Italian" as an infant, since mob life came so naturally to him.) Historically, the Jewish Mob was a dominant force in the brief period between when White America started seeing Irishmen as "white" and the rise of the more numerous Italian Mob. During that period, they were involved in the regularization and "professionalization" of organized crime in the US, with the establishment of the commission (the Italian-American Mafia's coordination/dispute-resolution body) and murder, inc. (organized, professional hitmen) being the brainchildren of Jewish mobsters (the Commission and Murder, Inc.'s parent organization, the National Crime Syndicate, were specifically Lansky's ideas).

Compare the mafia, the mafiya, the cartel, the triads and the tongs, yakuza and the irish mob.

 The first arc of  Several  The character of Moe Greene in  The character of Hyman Roth in   Bugsy and Lansky also appear in  Marty Augustine (Mark Rydell) is one of these in  In   Dutch Schultz in  Bernie Bernbaum in    Sam "Ace" Rothstein in  Nino and Bernie in    In  Cohen is also the main antagonist in   Interestingly, the Purple Gang, one of the few predominately-Jewish gangs of America, known for their violence and stranglehold over much of Detroit, had a film made about them that was an aversion. Due to racial attitudes at the time and the Hays Code, the film, "The Purple Gang" whitewashed all the main characters despite them being well-known to be Jews. The film was a financial failure.

  In  The gangsters in Shea and Wilson's   EL Doctorow's  Fictional   The kingpin of 50's Los Angeles, Mickey Cohen, plays a prominent role in  In the  Jewish gangsters feature prominently in      In  Michael Weston has run into the modern version of these guys once or twice on   The 3rd Street Saints in   The   Zalmie Belinksy in 