Nagging wife of a villain does not even begin to describe this character. This lady is just as crazy as her husband (if not more so). Not only is she supportive of his ambitions, but she helps him to achieve them. she might even turn out to be the leading force behind her husband.Whether it's lying to cops, disposing of a body, or helping her husband overcome any uncertainty about carrying out his evil plan, she'll do it. She might even push him to do it. She'll take charge if she has to. When she takes charge, she may turn to be such a good villain that the audience will wonder, "Why is she with this guy? She could have just done X by herself!" In the end that is not the case. If she doesn't get herself killed (or outright kill herself out of guilt like her namesake), it is inevitable that something will happen to her so that she can no longer upstage her husband.

Keep in mind that it's not completely necessary for this character to be the wife of the villain. She could just be his lover, and in some cases she could instead be his mother, sister, or even just a close female friend. The important part is that this character is always female, is sentimentally close to the villain in some way, and is either his partner in crime or uses diverse persuasion methods to nudge him towards the dark side.

The real Lady Macbeth was probably nothing like this, but historical records are few. The only things we absolutely know about her is that her name was Gruoch, Macbeth was her second husband, and she had one son from her first marriage. We do know that she didn't nag him into killing a wise old king in his sleep, though; the real Duncan was younger than Macbeth and a worthless wastrel, and Macbeth killed him in a fair fight in battle.

Compare the man behind the man (or the Woman, as the case may be), evil chancellor, god save us from the queen!, dark mistress (where the relationship is less equal), unholy matrimony.

While this trope has some degree of reality, please refrain from adding Real Life examples. As stated elsewhere, calling real people villains is asking for trouble.

