Way to go! The big bad's base is gone, his generals have been destroyed, and his mooks have run away! It looks like you've finally won! Wait a minute, what's that crawling out from under the rubble? Yipes! It's the Big Bad, and he looks as mad as hell! What's this? He's challenging you to a final battle? Prepare yourself for a Last Villain Stand!

This is where the big bad has lost his army, his plan has been ruined, and decides to fight the heroes on his own. Usually he uses applied phlebotinum or a macguffin to take on a one-winged angel form and becomes more powerful than ever before.

Usually, this is a desperate play by the villain when he has nothing left to lose, has gone through a villainous breakdown, and all that he's driven by now is a mad thirst for revenge for the heroes thwarting his plans to rule the world, the universe, or whatever he was after. He may take things to such an extreme that he doesn't care what happens to him as long as he destroys the good guys. It usually ends with the big bad being destroyed and the heroes coming out alive.

There are some cases where this trope is inverted when the big bad is a one-man army, his one man stand is not so desperate and he's still able to carry out his diabolical plans on his own. If this is the case, the villain is usually defeated when a miracle happens and the heroes gain the power needed to defeat him. This requires a certain amount of villainous valor, and if played correctly it may shift the audience's sympathy a bit more toward him.

Unlike a last breath bullet, the villain is still very much alive. However, this can still lead to taking you with me. Compare with last stand, where it's the heroes who are the ones making the desperate play. Contrast with villain exit stage left, where the villain flees instead of staying to fight to the end.

 Just about every villain in   Megatron at the end of  During the battle of Narita in  During his final battle against   In   The Anti-Monitor, multiple times during the  In the prologue of Crossgen's   In  The  An interesting case in   In  In   At the end of  The finale of  Khan quotes   Colonel Quaritch of J.C.'s ' Most  In  In  In  In the climax of  At the end of  In  In Middle-Earth:

 Almost every villain in  Hagen in the ending of the  The first   Several  The  Very common in the original  On  The 9th season finale of  In   Shakespeare's  Very common with  While every Mega Man boss is willing to hop in a mech or whip out a new battle body when you finally confront them, Epsilon of  At the end of  Desann in   By the time you reach Colonel Autumn in  Mook example: Behemoth Kings in   Liquid Ocelot in  Dahau in  Happens about three times in  In  The ending of  An inversion appears in  In  Megatron of 