She's got the raven-black hair, the tight leather bodice, the pale skin, and the fangs. The one thing this sexy vampiress doesn't have is a lust for hot male blood. No, only the blood of an innocent young woman will do.

The lesbian vampire is an old trope, stretching back to the 19th century novella Carmilla by Sheridan Le Fanu, which heavily inspired Bram Stoker's rather more famous Dracula. However, it didn't return into popular consciousness until the 1970s, when hammer horror made numerous films in which voluptuous countesses nibbled nubile young women. Since then, the trope has pretty much become the default setting for most female vampires, adding an extra layer of titillation to an already heavily sexualised mythological creature.

This blatant sexualisation sometimes leads to a variation — the Bisexual Vampire. In this case, the sexy vampire will happily take people of any gender to bed, but her primary target for the duration of the story will usually be a woman.

A variation on the lesbian vampire, particularly in pornography and films aimed at the young male demographic, is the female victim who is seduced and converted by a vampire and — either during the process of her seduction or after being transformed — begins to find women sexually attractive. This is sometimes explained as the vampire warping her mind so that she can become one of his harem, but usually, it is assumed that as soon as a woman joins the ranks of the undead, she immediately starts playing for both teams — such is the power of this trope.

This can result in unfortunate implications, specifically the idea that lesbianism or bisexuality is the result of a corruptive and malign influence, representative of moral decay. And if a female victim is transformed by a female vampire, it carries the implication that lesbian women are predatory and waiting to ensnare and 'convert' hapless heterosexual women. This can be presented as a positive or at least neutral thing however, such as becoming a vampire meaning that you're no longer bound to puritanical notions of sexuality that are often a part of human life, or can provide a convenient fantasy outlet. If you're going to be seduced by sexy minions of the night, no one will blame you for enjoying it, right?

In the works of some authors the gender flip version of this trope (i.e., male vampires attracted to other males) does exist; typically, they (like standard-issue female 'lesbian' vampires) are bisexual rather than exclusively same-sex attracted.

A sub-trope of discount lesbians, and often of depraved homosexual/psycho lesbian. See also horny devils and hemo erotic.

