Living under the heel of a despotic evil overlord and his empire is no picnic even for those blind to their tyranny. No surprise then that la résistance does everything it can to make his reign difficult. Luckily, what la résistance lacks in numbers it makes up for with loyal grassroots support from the oppressed people because the revolution will not be vilified. No matter how good the tyrant's publicity, only the foolish believe him and all the people that matter help la résistance.

Except, of course, for Les Collaborateurs. Why fight against the evil overlord when helping him can give you money, power, and revenge against all those pretty popular kids that just joined la résistance? Les Collaborateurs can act as the mole, spreading and gathering intelligence, as saboteurs within the resistance by undermining their own efforts, or as an agent of distrust and discord to break apart the alliance. Les Collaborateurs are only too happy to sell out their countrymen like animals to the slaughter, even if signs point to the villain having a penchant for killing collaborators.Usually they're unctuously smug snakes or a low grade magnificent bastard. And no, these guys will not end up becoming the mask or doing a heel-face turn — they've tasted power and found it sweet. You can, however, expect them to think that their utter betrayal will somehow make the chick insanely attracted to them (love makes you evil meets go-go enslavement). Thankfully, the cosmic sense of justice ensures that all collaborators meet with particularly grisly karmic deaths.

In real life, it's often a murkier picture. Ordinary, upstanding citizens across Europe "collaborated" to greater and lesser extents with Nazi occupation, for instance, and many of them were just trying to make the best of a bad situation. Others were maligned for simply fraternizing with the invaders to any extent. After the war, it was common practice in France, as well as probably elsewhere, to shave off the hair of women who have had intimate relations with German soldiers, for whatever reason. And while there were many executions legal and otherwise post-D-Day (the exact number is disputed), people in positions of authority who had collaborated were often given amnesty or left unpunished. (François Darlan for example switched sides without consequence before he was assassinated, possibly by the SOE).

If a member of Les Collaborateurs is given a position of power or influence over the conquered people, then he becomes the quisling.

See also transhuman treachery and dying like animals. Compare the remnant. This trope is the villain opposite of la résistance, and the government they collaborate with is the empire. When they are on the battlefield (willingly or not), they are battle thralls.

