At some point in life, everyone has had a doll —pardon, "action figure"— collection in their possession that they admired and played with, creating fanciful stories and battles, pretending to be someone else. A mother, a father, a doctor, a general... god.Even after growing up takes that delight away, many adults still enjoy keeping or adding to such a collection as a kitschy hobby. However, there are some adults who had a less than ideal childhood, breaking their minds to such an extent that only a fantasy where they have complete control can make sense. And dolls? They just don't cut it anymore.

Enter the Living Doll Collector. He or she will collect people, dead or alive, as if they were dolls and use them in macabre mimicry of their maddened imagination. There are a lot of variations here; the people may be kidnapped strangers, crushes, or family, and are dressed up and forced to act out roles in an inescapable "dream house". If they resist or the collector doesn't have the means to control or imprison them, well, corpses complain a lot less. embalming optional.If the collector has powers, this gets a lot creepier.

If he or she can make people puppets, then the still conscious puppets will be forced to do things against their will. Someone with powerful enough hypnotic eyes or mind control techniques can eventually program people to be anything from empty automatons to actually believing they're the collector's long lost dead little sister. A necromancer might dress up their zombies as maids and butlers, and even lovingly comb their (remaining) hair, preferring their company to that of the living. The hive queen may do this to her drones.It's also possible the collector was a completely normal person once upon a time, and has simply fallen to the power perversion potential of their abilities by treating people less like people and more like, well, dolls. For a deranged enough collector, interrogation by vandalism usually works when applied to the dolls, though it may backfire if said dolls are capable of self defense. They may be trying to enforce some kind of inner illusion or fantasy, in which case pointing it out to be fake (and dispelling the control over the dolls) can break them out of it and either make them see reason, possibly even releasing the dolls... or get really angry.

It's worth mentioning that sometimes the living doll turns out to not be quite so under their control after all and is basically playing along. Maybe because they like the game, or in order to stage an escape.A creepier form of the marionette master. Usually gets the spotlight in the doll episode. See also marionette motion.

See also showing off the new body and necromantic. Contrast puppeteer parasite, who are parasites that possess people. See also demonic possession, wax museum morgue.

See also the collector.

