A character borrows some money, but for whatever reason is unable to pay it back. Cue pursuit by some rather aggressive "providers of innovative financial services," who are determined to get their money back by any means necessary. The character really should have thought twice before borrowing money from the all-devouring black hole loan sharks.A Loan Shark is a stock villain who typically loans money at high interest rates and will stop at nothing to get it back. The loan shark may be only too eager to use violence if necessary. He may also have mob connections — money-lending is a time-honored means for organized crime to use money gotten from any number of less-than-honest means, and the hounding of their victims for payment and interest is just another means of extortion. In some cases, a loan shark will be reluctant to kill a debtor because a corpse can't pay its dues.

Loan sharks feature a lot in action movies, where they're usually tied to the mafia, the triads and the tongs, the yakuza or whatever other organized crime group features as the primary villain of the piece. Typically, the person being hounded by the loan sharks is someone who ran up a nasty gambling debt or needed money for some other reason and had nowhere else to turn, and now they are putting the heat on him to get their money back (with interest) and the borrower is unable to pay. Enter the hero, who is usually a friend of said borrower, who comes across the loan sharks doing their bit of nasty, beats the crap out of them and sends them packing. The loan sharks get pissed and the conflict ensues.

Unfortunately, this is truth in television (although some real-life Loan Sharks can be more flexible than others), and some high schools show videos warning students about the dangers of borrowing from loan sharks. Actual banks, within the United States at least, do not operate under this trope and will in fact often accept pennies on the dollar rather than have to repossess cars and houses. Bankers do not want to own your collateral because they tend to have trouble selling it to get their money (doing so was what caused the sub-prime mortgage crisis). Also of note is payday lending, which, due to its legality, does not involve violence but is less lenient than banks.

Compare morally bankrupt banker. deal with the devil is a fantasy equivalent of dealing with loan sharks.

