On one end of the social spectrum, we have the upper-class twit proving that money doesn't make good people. But that doesn't mean a lack of money does the same. This trope deals with the various varieties of lout, hooligan, and delinquent that appear in various media. While these stereotypes are truth in television to some degree, it's debatable whether the stereotype comes from real life, or said real life examples are imitating the stereotype. A typical lower-class lout is a usually (but not always) white teenager or young adult (with the occasional enfant terrible) who embodies the worst stereotypes of the working class (or middle class), which can (but does not have to) include;

 Prone to  Abusing and exploiting the benefits system, frequently while making unflattering (and often racist) remarks about  Typically carry around knives, guns, or other weapons as per their countries' weapons control laws (in the sense of how readily available this makes said weapons; don't expect them to obey the law at all).

 Female examples are typically  Male examples may have kids, but  Being generally  Speaking in an  Basing their opinions on things that they have little knowledge of (which, as previously mentioned, is almost everything worth knowing) on stereotypes and anecdotes of questionable relevance, as well as responding to even the most polite challenges of those opinions with disproportionate hostility and aggression.

  A distinct lack of hygiene, both  Driving around in a modified car ( Wearing (fake) designer clothing (often of a specific brand) with tacky (and fake) jewelry. Legitimate brands are usually even more tasteless or otherwise unflattering.

 Extreme  Committing domestic violence and frequently being part of a  Being part of a  Abuse of the legal system; filing  A tendency to blow any and all windfall money received on garish, tasteless garbage, as well as having an aggressive  Having loud fights and louder sex that    Female examples may be   Giving their children  Bad parenting, an almost exclusive reliance on corporal punishment for discipline, and a tendency to be overzealous with said discipline to the point of  Embracing violence as the way to handle all challenges and disputes and viewing more diplomatic approaches as being cowardly. The phrase   Going through the  Perpetually up to their eyebrows in some kind of petty drama...which is   Partaking of entertainment forms considered to be lowbrow, such as  Having a  Continually going on about how they're going to "get their shit together" while never even attempting to engage in any sort of meaningful effort to better their lives even when circumstances would readily allow for such a thing.

Because of the unfortunate implications the stereotypes imply, subversions are almost as common as straight examples, with a snobby or elitist character being established as such by having them accuse a sympathetic character as being one of these.

Various parts of the world have their own individual versions. Indeed, it's an interesting fact of crimino-sociology that nearly every society in the world with urban and youth culture has a certain stratum of "difficult" young people, especially men, which draw attention in popular culture.

  Australia and New Zealand have a similar stereotype known as a "bogan", who tend to be more middle class and less inclined towards theft. They are also more likely to  Ireland calls them "skangers", but " Scotland has "Neds" (which are similar to chavs, although some argue distinct).

 Russia has its equivalent in "gopnik" Japanese Yankees/Yankis would fit. The pop culture portrayal being "violent low-class delinquents given to speaking roughly, wearing tacky fake "brand-name" clothes and jewelry, and driving heavily modified (and also tacky) motorbikes/scooters". See  Singapore and Malaysia have counterparts: the  America has several types, although they tend to be regionally based. The exact slang used is different, the exact labels might be different, but there's generally a lot of overlap.

 Israel has "arsim" (male) and "frehot" (female). Aside from standard  In Iran, there is the "javat". A typical javat speaks with a peculiar accent, acts tough, and has a silly haircut and baggy clothes.

 Mexico has two varieties: the "naco" and the "buchón" Spain has one variant or two.

 France has both the "beaufs", often lower to middle-class, have "American" given names (Kévin, Brandon, Jessica, Kilian, Jennifer, Jordan etc), and loves cars, sports, crappy pop music, and bad reality shows. There are also the "racailles" or "wesh-wesh", the black and Arab versions of this trope; often delinquents who live in public housing, wear mostly tracksuits and caps, and only listen to rap music.

 Germany has the Asis (from Asoziale = asocial ones). They live in large cities like Berlin or Mannheim, are unemployed, love cellphones, brand-clothes, Fastfood, attack dogs, marihuana, private television, and of course Hip-hop. Their hobbies include shoplifting, graffities, protection rackets, happy slapping, and bullying. They speak heavily mangled German with loads and loads of  Argentina has "villeros" or "wachiturros" ("villagers" is the closest to an actual translation in English, and it's used as a derogatory term, wachiturro doesn't have a translation), they're all over Buenos Aires, and a couple of provinces. Most listen to Cumbia Villera music glorifying drug abuse and unsafe sex (or complaining that they want work or better job conditions). Their usual clothes consist of sport clothes, and imitations of these. The haircut for men is shaved on the sides and behind, and usually dyed blond on the top. The girls are similar, but they wear it longer. They usually live in either villas (similar to ghettos) and their usual jobs, if they have one, is selling bootleg products from little stands. If they don't, most are delinquents or prostitutes.

 Venezuela round all the lout under the umbrella terms of "marginal" (a semi-insulting term derived of the euphemism of "zona marginal" to refer to the Younger examples are almost always the bully. Because of the class-based origins of the stereotype, expect the moral of any story they appear in to lean towards eat the rich or kill the poor. Contrast the upper-class twit and aristocrats are evil (for when the rich are vilified) and working class hero. See also: football hooligans, delinquents, loser protagonist.

 '' In Peter Jackson's Adaptation of  The villains in  The 2007 reboot of  Most of characters in  The cast of  British horror film  The title character from  Way too many Venezuelan movies have at least one   Ditto for  The  By  The  Shad Ledue in  The Ewells from  Jerry Cruncher in  Some appear in  Townies tend to show up in many of  His day-job being doctor at a hospital in a very poor part of London, Theodore Dalrymple's writing is chock full of accounts of the people he treated, many of them for injuries incurred through their own bad decisions.

 The character of Vicky Pollard in  In  Kelly from  The reality series  An episode of  That "documentary" would be  The entire premise of  The Timmins family on  As do  Onslow, Hyacinth's brother-in-law on  The Gang in  Most (though not all) of the characters on  Big Bud Roberts in  In the original version of  Venezuelan  The Welsh group  This was also the image of the boyband  The Area 7 song " Rapper  Lady Sovereign is an English rapper with a 'chav' image.

 Plan B got accused of this so much that he wrote a song called "Ill Manors" attacking the stereotypes (inadvertently confirming them).

 The entire Grime genre is based around lower class accents.

 The club song "Get Up (Rattle)"'s music video features a group of chavs being stalked and killed by a group of ducks.

  The   There's a game called " Hilariously, the  The Kankers from  Quite a few residents in 