

So, this guy has been a total jerkass to you and you've had enough and snap. You stand up to him, give him a "the reason you suck" speech, and tell him off for everything he's done to you. Should be a moment of awesome, right? Well, guess what? You were so harsh on the guy that you hurt his feelings. Even worse, your display was witnessed and the only thing that everyone saw was you being mean to him! congratulations. Everyone thinks you're the jerk instead of the guy you just told off!

This can be a family-unfriendly aesop where being a jerk back is even worse than what the original Jerkass did to you. Can result from being a bully hunter. A villain, especially a villain with good publicity, may use this to give a hero bad cred. Similar to why did you make me hit you? (where the guy who hit you acts like the victim), if you taunt him, you will be just like him, and avenging the villain. Related to arrested for heroism and no good deed goes unpunished (for being punished for doing the right thing), crime of self-defense (for being punished for defending yourself), playing the victim card (as in a villain tries to get sympathy by claiming to be a victim) and wounded gazelle gambit (where one pretends to be hurt by another in order to make him look bad). If the victim of this trope were friends with anyone who witness this scene prior to this moment, it probably triggers an et tu, brute? and we used to be friends situation. Compare what the hell, hero?. Contrast engineered public confession. See also informed wrongness for when the author deliberately puts someone in the wrong but the person didn't do anything wrong. Compare no sympathy for grudgeholders where the grudgeholder ends up in this situation.

This trope is truth in television. Sometimes bad timing means only the retaliation and not the original Jerkass behaviour gets witnessed by peers or authority figures; other times it's because they don't care what wrongdoings are going on so long as things stay quiet, or there's a bitch in sheep's clothing at work.

 One episode of  In  Played with in  In  In one of the later  An episode of  In one episode of  In the  One episode of  Wonderfully inverted in an episode of  In   Wonderfully summed up in the last panel of  Phase of the   In effect in   The ending of  An infamous example is  An episode of  One episode   One episode of  A most egregious example occurs, in of all places, a 