They're scientists, they're somewhat scatterbrained, their practice is questionable, and they are frequently working for the bad guys, building implausible gadgetry in their mad scientist laboratory, or slightly ridiculous superweapons. They tend to wear lab coats (classically, the Howie-style lab coat that buttons diagonally across the chest and has a Mandarin collar), have either wild hair or total baldness, and speak with fake central european accents. They will often be accompanied by a hunchbacked sidekick of some description. Sometimes they will engage in sesquipedalian loquaciousness. people will often call them mad.If they are part of a five-man band or otherwise allied with the hero, they may be a broken smart guy, an extremely eccentric mentor, a particularly proactive engineer, token evil teammate or psycho sidekick. In some cases they are an innocent prodigy or genius ditz strangely acting simultaneously as the smart guy, the heart, and team pet when they aren't in the madness place. When they do go there, however, expect a dramatic example of crouching woobie hidden badass.

Mad Scientists tend to have vast stockpiles of applied phlebotinum available. They do a lot of hand-waving and cackling as they construct or summon the monster of the week or repair the villain's humongous mecha, which is usually only dimly visible in a gigantic foggy cloud of expository techno babble. If they call their lab a "la-bore-atory", it's a sure bet you're dealing with a Mad Scientist. When confronted about their amorality, expect them to shout that the true value of their work is A common plot thread for stories with a mad scientist, particularly when they are a protagonist or anti-villain, has the Mad Scientist seeking to prove a radical theory to the academic world or acknowledgement for their unrecognized brilliance, whether by saving the world or destroying it. Another common plot features the reluctant mad scientist seeking to fix a problem they helped create, or forced into the service of the big bad against their will. The Mad Scientist traditionally has a beautiful daughter for the hero to fall in love with.

An increasingly common take on this trope is that Mad Science is a dangerous superpower or even a disease, either hereditary in which case the afflicted may come from a long line of mad scientists, or transmissible through contagious ideas or revelations. Since insane equals violent, the transformation associated with contracting Mad Science can often be a dangerous one, involving the sudden invention of a killer robot, death ray or other instances of implausibly fast engineering.

When there are more than one or two Mad Scientists in a work, they will often specialize, becoming an evilutionary biologist or perhaps a mad computer scientist. Of course, specializing in some mad -ology usually involves disagreeing with the current standard explanations in the field, or at least believing that there are some important experiments everyone is ignoring (probably because they are unethical). See also tv genius, evil genius, science-related memetic disorder, and, inevitably, scale of scientific sins.

See also reluctant mad scientist, for when a mad scientist just wants to do science, but his boss keeps using his inventions for evil. kidnapped scientist is the extreme case in which a scientist is outright coerced into working for the bad guys.

     