The opposite of everything's better with monkeys. Instead of being inherently cool or exotic, these monkeys are used as signs that something bad is about to go down. Because of their similarities to humans, a superintelligent ape is going to suffer from an inherent sibling rivalry with the human race, and want to either wipe it out or subdue it. Often, in series which feature anthropomorphic animals, apes and monkeys will play the bad guys. Distinct from killer space monkey in that these monkeys are usually super intelligent mad scientists who want to take over the world or at least make life difficult for humanity.

killer gorilla is a subtrope, where the primate in question is not just malicious but also big and strong.

 The Saiyans from  The apes in  Aozaru from  Etemon from  The Beast Titan, from  One of the rival teams faced by the Sunny Farm F.C. in  Gorilla Grodd from  Likewise, Ultra-Humanite sort of fits this trope, as he is a  The folks behind  Ape X from   The Disney  After Calvin opens a circus box in  The  The   The fourth  The Simians from  The Flying Monkeys from  The apes from  The titular primate in  Ella in  The Killer Apes of Zinj from  1986 film  In  In  A segment from the anthology horror film  The gorilla in  The Bandar-log (Monkey-folk) from  The  In   In  Apes were a common monster in Robert E. Howard's  The Wickersham brothers from  The Pak, in Larry Niven's  In  In  The Crazy Monkey in  The "Monkey Mayhem" table of  In  Medieval bestiaries  Among the factions of   Given that     The Monkeys from  The monkeys, but especially Specter, from   In  The demon monkeys chasing you in  Gohma Howlers from  The monkeys in  The Monkeymen from the   The  Mojo Jojo from  During the first  Monkeyfist and his army of monkey ninjas from  Baboon and  Dr. Wasabi's ninja chimps from  Simian from the  The Monkey King from    Literal example from  One episode of  Evil Monkey from  Dr. Frankenollie, the  The  In  Nonhuman primates in general are extremely dangerous animals. Chimpanzees take the cake, having killed quite a few people, even in the wild.   Former wildlife TV show presenter 