the trickster doesn't even begin to describe this character. If the chessmaster is the master manipulator of events, the Manipulative Bastard is the master manipulator of emotions and perspectives. This is the guy who gets off on playing head games — clever and dangerous and lacking comedic overtones. He or she always has the plan, but rather than do any work, the Manipulative Bastard prefers to play on other characters' emotions and then watch the victims destroy themselves as they waste their energy on fighting against fake dangers or their friends.

In many cases the Manipulative Bastard personally is rarely emotional and seldom burdened by notions such as empathy, yet is all too willing to abuse it in others. The Bastard is unmoved by the pain of others, if not actively basking in it. Thus the frequent association of how someone who does manipulative bastardry too often can come across as a sociopath. After all, too many pet the dog moments may lead this character to become the mask and care about the people he or she previously saw as playthings.

Like Chessmasters, Manipulative Bastards will have some larger scheme in mind but tend to lose sight of it more easily and simply enjoy the control they have over their peers. A highly-focused/ambitious Manipulative Bastard is scary indeed; not only achieving his or her goal, but then ensuring permanent supremacy by destroying the souls of everyone he or she used to get there. A hell of a lot of heroic willpower, and often shooting the dog is required to topple this character.

While this character type seems inherently villainous, many of them are at least nominally on the heroes' side. A cunning branch of the anti-hero family sports this trope and many a guile hero uses many of the same tricks. Indeed, many Tricksters also overlap into Manipulative Bastard territory. The hero will probably survive a relationship with this character, but their trust in people will not.

Manipulative Bastards often fall into the karma houdini trope — after all, they never "forced" anybody to do anything...which leads the audience to scream, "why do you keep falling for this?" at the other characters.

Different methods of Manipulative Bastardry exists, depending on these characters' favorite tricks to manipulate people:

   The  The  The  The  The  Certain  The last subtype is the Sometimes overlaps with devil in plain sight, but is often the "grown up" version, where the "look cute" fallback has become a fairly professional strategy. A Manipulative Bastard who mixes emotional manipulation with complicated schemes, mind games, and sufficiently scary facial expressions — and does it all with style — can get promoted to magnificent bastard. Compare clock king, who does the same thing with people's schedules instead of their emotions. Manipulating people specifically to bring out their worst natures is the mark of the corrupter. May engage in a battle of wits, if anyone can match the Manipulative Bastard. For the much more heroic equivalent, see guile hero. Not to be mistaken for a troll, for whom their manipulations often don't have a purpose other than cruel amusement. See also opportunistic bastard.

        