Most villains (and the occasional hero, but this is largely a villain power), if given the chance, will employ magic or mechanisms to confuzzle his or her enemies and render them vulnerable, but a Master Of Illusion will go beyond merely using such trickery as a tool. Instead, he or she will hone it into a fine art form; milking it for as much trickery, espionage, and/or personal pleasure as they can derive from it.

Such powers are usually psychic in origin, although they can also be technological as well, creating holograms which can be especially dangerous when they can make them solid (holograms also carry the bonus of being able to fool electronic surveillance). Despite lacking obvious means of attack like with pyrokinesis and telekinesis, they can use a faux flame to burn, though resolute heroes may resist, or making a gaping hole seem like an even floor. A common variant is for the Master Of Illusion to trap the hero in a virtual reality simulation over which the villain has complete control. Of course, death or injury in the simulation will usually mean death or injury in real life, so any hero thus ensnared will have to be careful. Most Masters of Illusion aren't content to just let their VR deathtrap program play out by itself - what would be the fun in that after all? So they'll frequently appear in the simulation, usually as a cackling, monstrous tormentor who plays cat and mouse games with the hero and who mocks their every step. If the Master Of Illusion traps a hero in a lotus-eater machine,—or in a simulation of their ordinary, everyday life—they'll frequently appear as an ally of the hero, using this form to distract the hero from discovering their true whereabouts, or as part of a ruse to trick the hero into revealing some important confidential information.

In more insidious cases, the Master Of Illusion will appear to the hero as a romantic interest, either one the hero knows, or one that's been created whole cloth out of the hero's own memories and desires. This gives the Master Of Illusion the chance to screw with the hero's mind (and body, depending on how far the writers let things go.)

Masters of Illusion really needn't bother with such elaborate setups. It would be easy enough, after all, to destroy a spaceship by having its crewmembers press the wrong buttons and steer it into the nearest star (this type of illusionist may often use a variant of the "this is not a floor" trick). Or to kill the heroes by having them confuse each other for enemies and fatally attack each other. But again, what would be the fun in doing something as simple as that? Masters of Illusion, having trickster personalities by the very nature of their powers, will usually not be able to resist playing with their prey. Of course, this could—and usually does - give the heroes the time and/or chance to think up a way to counter the Master Of Illusion's powers, or leave clues that they are in an illusion in the first place, such as a blank book. Once the villain is destroyed, the world they create usually dissolves into nothingness - provided the defeat or death of the Master Of Illusion wasn't part of the illusion itself...And really, as a hero... how would you know? Could you ever really be sure that you defeated the Master Of Illusion and escaped? Why is schrödinger's butterfly flapping nearby?

(Cue an echoing "mwahahahahaha.")

Interestingly, the Master Of Illusion will very rarely turn out to be the big bad - this is because they're far less interested in ruling people than they are in just screwing with them. For some reason, the big bad who employs a Master Of Illusion never worries that he himself might be enthralled or under their control. (Although if he were, would the Master Of Illusion allow him to experience any doubts?) Also, while the Master of Illusion is usually villainous, heroic examples are hardly unknown. If the Master Of Illusion is the big bad, their power over illusions may become borderline reality warping.

Note: This trope doesn't apply to villains who occasionally employ illusory tricks to ensnare enemies. The Master Of Illusion is a specialist in generating manipulative hallucinations, and will usually possess no other powers apart from that. (Although when you have the ability to trick the mighty glacier into thinking that his 6-foot long claymore is a flyswatter and that a poisonous mosquito has just landed on the back of his buddy's neck, who needs other powers?)

See also lotus-eater machine, the masquerade, the treachery of images, i know what you fear, cold flames and shapeshifting seducer. Compare glamour. not to be confused with mickey mouse's games.

For the other type of Master of Illusions, the folks who perform to entertain audiences, see stage magician.

