humans are bastards, and that's unanimous. Whenever we win we need to rub our victory to the loser and call him out. From the Crusades to the Nazis, the Spanish and the Aztecs and even the Olympic Games; history is full of people who just had to do it. So you got a story where the big bad has won. His armies swarm the entire country and la résistance is forced to retreat, flee or go into hiding. That's pretty bad, but the bad guy has yet one last thing to do: ensure his rule. So he makes something to honour his victory: he sends his people to make him a giant statue of Our Glorious Leader over the remains of the rebel base, renames the former rebel city stronghold in his name, sets a yearly military Victory Parade on V-Day, or all of them (and/or many many more). His purpose is both to exalt his ego and gloating to ensure no one dares question his authority by taking a former symbol of la résistance and using it against them. If there are still members of la résistance hiding around somewhere, the monuments serve to mock them and remind them of their defeat, lower their morale and prevent them to rise against the Leader one more time. Forcing the defeated enemies to kneel before zod is often part of it as well. Usually invoked in dystopian worlds.

Compare to our founder. If the bad guy replaces the city's name for a mere number it's airstrip one. See also humiliation conga, which is about the villain suffering from any such incident, to the joy of the audience and usually the hero. Subtrope of evil gloating. Since real life has a ton of examples and these may outnumber the rest, no real life examples, please! The Saturday 1 April 2000 issue of  The  In the  In season 4 of  Perseus is known for slaying the dreaded Gorgon Medusa, cursed by Athena with snakes for hair and hideous ugliness that would turn men to stone. Later adaptations of this myth have Medusa's lair littered with statues: the remains of those who came before Perseus... and failed.

 In the   Technically, the titular    The Iron Throne in   In  In   In the last act of  A back-and-forth example in  In  In  In  On 