This is when a leader is cruel and, perhaps, incompetent, and the underling obeys him out of adherence to some ideal, while hating every minute of it.

The trope is mostly used in vaguely medieval settings. Feudalism, after all, is based on personal obligations to a liege-lord (in other structures, the loyalty is more impersonal, usually based on a community or an ideology). The underling usually is a minor noble of a warrior caste, a knight or samurai or such.

To make certain that the public understands that this character is not following out of blind obedience or sadism and in fact disagrees, he will get a lot of pet the dog moments, appeal to his liege to re-think a decision, beg for the lives of others, angst visibly when he's alone, and try to twist his orders a little if possible. He often doesn't even consider the heroes his enemy and is an honorable opponent. Also, he might be seen as suffering as much under his lord as the next subject, for sympathy points.

These types tend to be the fettered who have sworn an oath to unreliable leaders and refuse to break their word. Such characters are prone to heel-face turn because all they need is to broaden their ethic horizon a bit. It's also popular for some deliberate values dissonance, presenting feudal ideals and showing the modern public how an obviously compassionate man can be made to freely follow obviously cruel orders. (However, their actions can also be interpreted as the way of the unfettered: their goal is clear, remaining loyal to their master and doing whatever they want, ranging from recycling garbage to mass genocide, even though their hearts may not be into it)

Of course, in many real feudal systems, trying to force a vassal to act dishonorably—or making him jeopardize the value of the land-grant that secured his service in the first place, e.g. by overworking his serfs—could jeopardize his vassalage itself. In "High" Medieval Western Europe, also, a vassal could hardly be said to have a "master"; vassals were obligated to show up with troops when their liege asked, and stay for a term (usually 90 days or so). After that term, they could leave, and while they were obligated to generally assist their liege they were (in theory) their liege's equals—hence why nobles are called "peers"—and thus didn't have to take orders, so battle-planning involved negotiations over who would do what.

This deals with such questions as: What is an oath worth? What are wrong and right, personal mercy or abstract principles? What is honor? The liege is evil, how evil is the vassal?

Liege and vassal are great foils for each other and for the relationship of a leading hero and his followers.

Especially tragic when the vassal is also more competent than the liege. Very similar to my country, right or wrong, only more personal. A common characterization of the dragon. Contrast rebellious rebel, mook-face turn, mistreatment-induced betrayal, secret test of character. Compare blind obedience, where the character follows their liege because of a belief they can't be wrong and shouldn't be questioned.

