

More often than not when a story has a big bad there will be a big good to counter them. This has a number of advantages; it keeps the heroes' side balanced against the antagonists', provides a source of support for the heroes and generally stops the series getting too cynical. On the other hand, it raises some problems. Namely, with the strength of such a strong ally, where's the tension? The big good could easily end up being a story-breaker power, which also begs the question of why they don't get off their arse and send their villainous counterpart packing (or vice versa).

Cue this trope - a powerful benefactor of the heroes (essentially doing the same thing in the story that a big good would) who has their own agenda or reasons for helping them. Perhaps they're mysterious and hard to trust, perhaps they're visible, but seem a little too keen to shoot the dog. Other times, they're genuinely benevolent beings who are working within some sort of non-interference clause, and may employ the same tactics as their opponents. Either way, they'll provide the support the cast needs, but the heroes (or at least the audience) don't quite know if they can be trusted. Even if they are the big good proper, they might not be planning to do things in an entirely moral manner or have it in for the heroes and wish to make them suffer more than they really need to. In a worst case scenario, they might become the new big bad or turn out to be a bigger bad.

Remember that this isn't a simple case of omniscient morality license or in mysterious ways, nor are they a big good who likes to stay hidden or keep an air of mystery around themselves; the entity in question must be at least visibly untrustworthy rather than having an excuse for their seemingly questionable behaviour. A hero with this trope as their main support might (but doesn't always) find themselves as an unwitting pawn, although to count as this trope, the mysterious backer must further the heroes' agenda as much as their own (assuming they aren't one and the same). They're quite fond of the passive rescue (particularly when it means the hero might be forced to do something on his way out).

A subtrope of the powers that be and mysterious stranger. See poisonous friend for another type of ally who might not see eye to eye with the rest of the team. Contrast with big bad friend, for someone who's close to and trusted by the hero, but leads the villains, and enigmatic minion for someone who's on the villain's side with unclear motives.

