All hope is lost, soon the big bad will achieve his/her goal of taking over/destroying the city/world/universe and there's nothing the heroes can do to stop them. Then WHAM! Something unexpected happens, and the tide turns in the heroes' favor, allowing them to overcome the villain and win.

This is what we call a Near Villain Victory, where the bad guys look like they're going to win only to get defeated at the last moment.

It is a given that in battles between the forces of good and evil, the heroes will win 99% of the time and the villains will be defeated in the end. So, the writers will come up with scenarios that stack the odds in the villains' favor and give them minor victories, thus raising tension by getting the audience to think that maybe this time the hero won't save the day.

Often, it's the very fact the villain is so close to victory that results in their downfall. They've got the heroes on the run, maybe they've got every right to think they're going to win or already have...then they get cocky. because they already declared victory, they come to think the hero is no longer a real threat to them. Sometimes, they might even ignore the hero to focus on putting the finishing touches to their plan or announce themselves the supreme evil overlord, confident they've got nothing to worry about. This gives the heroes the opening to make a big, crippling blow when the big bad is least expecting it.

Note: There is in fact a very real and very specific word for this trope. That word is eucatastrophe. (It's also worthwhile to note who invented this word. Though j. r. r. tolkien's definition stresses that somehow things go good, not solely because a group of hard working Badass heroes are turning it around, but because of some intervention or action beyond the heroes' control - in effect, a miracle - that makes victory possible.)

When this trope gets subverted and the villain still wins anyway, you have a hope spot.

Compare you can't thwart stage one. Might overlap with darkest hour. Often used to set up a plot about coming back from the brink when it occurs in video games. If it gets bad enough, then only the author can save them now. In video games, the instant-win condition can easily result in this trope.

