

The criminal underworld is a big, big place. It is shadowy, omnipresent and indiscriminate — if you are out to break the law, you're in, whether you like it or not.

An ancient conspiracy only in that crime is as old as sin, this trope brings together the syndicate, the corrupt corporate executive, corrupt bureaucrat, the chessmaster, magnificent bastard, arms dealer, terrorists, rogue states and potentially anybody involved in organized crime of one kind or another. It won't likely be a full-fledged government conspiracy, but it will have a few politicians in its pocket. A portion of the loot for that bank job goes to the local syndicate who are dealing arms to African revolutionaries with links to Islamic terrorists, who blow up a plane with a mafia snitch on board and run by an airline that was getting in the way of a corrupt corporate executive. All this was monitored and assisted by the nebulous evil organization who knew all the necessary information from their mole in the FBI.

The nebulous criminal conspiracy is when a number of criminals and criminal organizations — which when properly defined includes terrorists, illegal militias, revolutionaries and other politically-minded groups as well as your mafias and drug cartels — make common cause with each other despite rival or even diametrically opposed goals. It may or may not include, or be headed by, at least one nebulous evil organization that feels the need to hire out from time to time. It is often run behind the scenes by a group of manipulative bastards and chessmasters who are trying to achieve a single grand objective, but want or need to use other criminals to achieve these ends. As the underworld is a community, expect them to know who all the hitmen are and to use many frequently.

A subtrope of the conspiracy.

 In  Another   And in    In     In  In   In  Something like this seems to be going on in  The Lucian Alliance from the  In  The smuggling ring in  The Inner Circle from the  In :

 In  The Undersiders from  In  In 