Their goals are evil but their means, not so much.

A Noble Demon is a villainous character with a code of honor. He doesn't care that he has a bad image — he may even actively cultivate and embrace it. However, every so often a situation presents itself and he's just not willing to go the extra mile necessary to be completely evil. He'll topple your castle, but he'll do it right after everyone has cleared out first. He'll sacrifice whole armies to achieve his goal but he'll also sacrifice himself if he must. He'll conquer your village but he won't cause more destruction than necessary. He wants to kill the hero but he won't stab an enemy in the back. His ambition might be to take over the world, or merely to uphold the evil side of the balance between good and evil.

Some will be obsessed with explaining this behavior so people won't think that he's gone soft. Killing enemies or servants who have failed but are loyal is "a waste of resources" and his inevitable newfound friends are "tactically advantageous allies." However, this is usually just a front.

A lot of this behavior is sometimes explained as the result of a complex they acquired when they felt weak and helpless, and all they really need is to be loved. A villainous Noble Demon isn't nice, but being noble and powerful seems to imply they are above petty and malicious acts, or at least uninterested in them.

A Noble Demon who's a proud warrior race guy often comments that his enemies are (or have become) petty and cowardly and stain the name of their species.

Sometimes a fanciful version of the delinquent hero. Commonly experiences sympathy for the devil from the heroes, and may show sympathy for the hero right back. If eviler than thou comes up, the Noble Demon will likely be on the less evil end. May be the "grayer" character in a lighter shade of grey.

Compare the less villainous versions: jerk with a heart of gold and jerkass façade.

If a Noble Demon is an anti-villain then he is a "Type I" or a "Type IV" in the sliding scale of anti-villains.

Whether anti-villain or anti-hero beneath the facade, expect a Noble Demon's motives to include getting plenty of villain cred.

See also noble top enforcer, chaotic neutral/true neutral, and lawful evil. Contrast faux affably evil, whose kind acts only serve to benefit him as well as card-carrying villain who does not deny he's evil and is willing to do all things evil. Villains lacking this trait will usually be always chaotic evil. Compare and contrast nominal hero, a character who does heroic deeds for all the wrong reasons.

