Hello, Troper. I see you've come to learn more about the No One Sees The Boss trope. Don't worry, I can take care of that for you. While i'm not the trope you're asking about, you can deal with me just as you would him. You see, no one sees that particular trope, ever.

This trope (that is, the trope that is not me) is often used in conjunction with mysterious employer, the don, The big bad, The bigger bad, The god of evil, and villains which are made of evil, when the bad guy in question is the unseen. Supposedly, the guy exists, and almost every person you see acts as his eyes and ears. At the same time, no one has any idea who he is or what he looks like, or even if "he" is really a "they". There are also the examples where the boss may want people to think he doesn't exist at all.almost every ordeal the characters suffer through was caused, known, or controlled by him. Often, it's as simple as it sounds: The Boss exists, but is simply reclusive. But sometimes, the person in charge only exists as a title, rather than a name and is simply replaced by a successor if they die, step down or are killed by said successor. Other times, the Boss spends most of his time as a faceless mook and is hidden in plain sight the whole time. And lastly, there's the version where there actually IS no Boss, and it's actually been the dragon-in-chief, the omniscient council of vagueness or a cult that's been running the show by pretending to follow the master's orders.

This can sometimes be used by the forces of good as well, but it's not very common. Some heroic cases where this may apply are mission control, the chosen one, The big good or The fake ultimate hero.

This trope (which is certainly not speaking to you now) is a sub-trope of the unseen, The powers that be, and The masquerade in combination. Like the first two, the character never makes an appearance with enough weight to establish whether he's real or not, but this is done deliberately either by his mooks or the manipulative bastard himself. Sometimes, the exact words "no one sees the boss" are used, or some variation thereof like "no one knows what he looks like" or "he may or may not exist". Any information given will usually be shrouded in myth like, "I heard he was born after Cthulhu raped Beelzebub and the baby clawed his way out of the womb and ate both parents' souls". Before the reveal (if there is one), any origin will be multiple choice past.

The point is, if it's not being done in-universe, it's not this trope. Usually, the audience doesn't even know themselves, but this tends to vary depending on its importance as a plot twist. See also shadow dictator.

Now, please write your examples below, my Troper friend. I am sure that the real No One Sees The Boss trope will put them on display so fast that it'll almost seem as though he were on this page the whole time . . .

