A villain who is convinced that his actions are acceptable or helpful. These villains aren't justifying their wrongdoings. They aren't compelled by unnatural forces. They just don't comprehend that they're doing anything wrong. This can be achieved in several ways:

 Their perceptions could be tainted with  Their minds could be  They could have a  They could just be  They could just be  They might have  They might be  They might  They are being deceived by someone else.

 They have animal-level intelligence and are acting out of  They may not be privy to  They will be confused or annoyed at any explanation that what they're doing is wrong, and react with confusion or disdain if the heroes A horror trope (and occasionally a comedy trope in a black comedy), this can really freak people out if played right. It places the heroes into a situation where they can't even try to reason with the villain. It can also be used to underscore that the villain is indeed a tragic figure, as he or she (or it) may never have actually intended to harm anyone. Alternately, this can be used to make a creature sympathetic. You give it a valid reason for doing the things it does, and once it has that reason, it won't see what it's doing as wrong.

There are two basic requirements for a character to be this trope:

 They are dangerous. The character is quite capable of causing tyranny, tragedy, chaos, wanton destruction, etc., and has done so on numerous occasions. Contrast the  They have no idea that they're doing Contrast the card-carrying villain, who knows he is evil. Contrast the knight templar, well-intentioned extremist, and woobie, destroyer of worlds, who think they are doing good but generally realize that others may object to their unusual methods. Contrast the minion with an f in evil and punch clock villain, who try to avoid kick the dog moments.

Some kaiju are like this. They just wanted to build a nest and get some lunch, but they stumbled across countless strange structures and were suddenly under attack by tiny bipedal creatures. The principle is the same for many eldritch abominations and humanoid abominations, which are (usually) sentient, but their views on morality are vastly different from ours. Such a character may qualify as a case of non-malicious monster or humans are cthulhu. May eventually come to a heel realization / my god, what have i done? moment.

Not to be confused with obviously evil. Compare innocent bigot or innocently insensitive for much milder related tropes. Compare also lethally stupid for a character who causes havoc out of sheer idiocy. For obvious reasons, Obliviously Evil characters are also very likely to be affably evil. Also see sliding scale of unavoidable vs. unforgivable and psychopathic manchild. See inspector javert for when the person upholds the law against good criminals.

