A face-heel turn that was obviously coming.

This character is one of the good guys, but he has a certain air about him. You just know that he'll eventually betray the group in some way or another, even though the writer has shown no evidence that he plans to actually do evil (rather than just look evil). So why suspect him? He expresses traits that seem obviously evil; perhaps he speaks in a creepy monotone and wears an ominous opera cape, or his name is "morded mctraitor", or he just looks like dastardly whiplash. When he finally turns evil, you say, "i knew it!"

This trope is an audience reaction, because the other protagonists suspect nothing. This trope can also happen in universe if a genre savvy character predicts a betrayal, but doesn't warn the good guys. This trope can become the untwist, if the audience thinks (by mistake) that the character can't turn evil, because it would be too obvious. It can overlap with narrowed it down to the guy i recognize, if one protagonist's actor usually plays evil characters.

Do not add an example until the work reveals that the character turns evil. The audience might see an Obvious Judas where the author did not intend one. It would be stupid to list someone as an Obvious Judas, only to reach the end of the story and find that the character never became a Judas. Examples for characters, who aren't evil yet, belong in wild mass guessing.

Also beware of hindsight: anyone can predict a face-heel turn after it already happened. This trope only counts if the character seemed evil back when he or she was outwardly good. judas iscariot doesn't fit this trope in the bible (though he did betray Jesus), but Judas might fit this trope in newer works that retell biblical events, and other characters might fit this trope if the audience sees an allusion to Judas.

Subtrope of captain obvious reveal.

THERE ARE SPOILERS AHEAD!  Vegeta in the Majin Buu arc of   Kai from  Ren Gyokuen from  Trixie, in  The version of Judas Iscariot in the  Harry Osborne from the  Magneto in  In  The   Nicodemus of  A strange sort of   Kain from  Cait Sith from  Bishop and Qara from  Orson in     Eridan Ampora from  When the term "pre-made psycho" or similar is used among  Cartman from  Sinedd from  Coverton from 