A lot of fiction out there has a tendency to employ incredibly black and white perspectives to the characters and their actions. Due to the belief that its target demographic (usually children or dumbasses) can't understand subtler shades of evil, many works of fiction create a stark contrast between the heroes and villains. When this happens, the creators will bring in their Obviously Evil® Design Team. (Of course, another reason obvious villains are used in some fiction is simply because everyone loves a badass villain.)

If a work of fiction indulges in Obviously Evil®, every villain will be a card-carrying villain, usually colour-coded for your convenience in shades of black and red. There won't be any well intentioned extremists, knights templar or pretty much anyone that doesn't accept and accentuate their evilness. If you see anybody that might seem to be a shade of grey on the side of the villains, it will usually basically be a hero with a slight bit of behavior modification to work with the villains (and an inevitable heel-face turn coming up during sweeps). If the villainous group is a governing body, it will always be an evil empire with a 0% approval rating. There aren't any punch clock minions that just accepted the job because it's work, but, instead, always chaotic evil faceless goons that act like miniature versions of the main villain and provide no guilt whatsoever, when they get killed by the truckload. the dragon will always be the starscream and never have any ulterior motive beyond a lust for more power. There will never be any worthy opponents or tragic villains or any kind of antagonist presented sympathetically as this doesn't accentuate the author's need the make the bad guys ALL bad.

The goals of the villains and their organization are always incredibly eeeeeevil, with one of five purposes: world domination, world destruction, corruption, genocide, or antagonizing the heroes. Nobody on the side of evil will ever pet the dog (except maybe the none-too-subtle heel-face turn candidate). Even their imagery is blatantly made as a contrast to the heroes, with lots of skulls, spikes of villainy, and other assorted things. Imagine a villain whose entire body is made of red right hands, stitched together with thread made from the skin of dead puppies and you're beginning to get the idea.

Fiction that relies on this is almost always anvilicious to a fault, being the most extreme example of black and white morality. If the writers don't like X, they can just have someone Obviously Evil doing x.

Note that it's possible to have Obviously Evil figures in a normally more subtle setting; frequently, the justification is that the character is so far gone into his card carrying villainy (or some brutal variation of blue and orange morality) that he doesn't care what other people think of him.

There are actually two aspects to this trope:

The first is Obviously Evil Behavior, where the villains act in extremely vicious and unnecessarily cruel fashion to heighten their evilness may overlap with stupid evil. Extremely common in fan fiction were authors use this as a shortcut to establish the "Bad Guy" of the fic and often happens to the author's least favorite character. Prone to rape as drama. See kick the dog.

The second is Obviously Evil Appearance were the villain merely appears evil. Unlike behavior, the appearance tropes are just steriotypes that have been drilled into our head over the years and as such make for prime subversion fodder when they appear on heroes and anti-heroes (After all, who would expect skeletor's skull-faced mug up there to appear on a good guy). Even when they appear on certain types of villains they can still be used for the subversion aspect as people who have grown up on "Spikey-armor = Iredeemable" can still get thrown for a loop when it appears on a character presented sympathetically. If the villain of the series is a knight templar of villain with good publicity then having a hero with an "obviously evil appearance" can create an interesting commentary on the nature of good and evil as the "Evil" looking hero battles the "Heroic" looking villain. See dark is not evil.

Compare black and white morality, black and grey morality, and villainous fashion sense. Not to be confused with devil in plain sight or obliviously evil, though the former can overlap. Contrast dark is not evil, grey and grey morality, and morality kitchen sink.

                                                                                         