Some parents would go through hell and back to protect their kids. Some even take it just a tad too far at times. Sometimes way too far.and then there's your parents.they don't love you. Really. They don't even like you. Truth is, they'd really rather you didn't exist at all. Sometimes, they will actually go so far as to take a personal hand in this. The motto of this sort of parent is "I brought you into this world, and by God, I can take you out of it again." Talk about your parental issues.

Generally, only one parent of the pair feels this way (otherwise you probably wouldn't exist in the first place, or wouldn't have lived long enough to feel bad about the situation.) But the other parent may be dead, or vanished, or simply not strong enough to offer protection. If the other parent is actually protective, there will likely be major fireworks when he or she finds out what the spouse intends to do with the sprout.

There are several subtropes a murderous parent may fall into:

"I Need A Spare Bedroom": The child is blameless (or at least not guilty of anything deserving of death); the parent just wants to dispose of the child for some reason. Maybe there's a prophecy about the kid coming back and killing the parent and the parent figures "It's me or them"; maybe the parent has to keep a pact made with a dark power in which the child's life is the price; maybe you've been born into a family of power but Mom and/or Dad likes your younger sibling better and wants you out of the way of their ascent into power; maybe you were born as an unacceptable nonconformist; maybe the parent would rather see you dead than with someone he didn't choose for you or believes that you've stained the honor of the family in some fashion; maybe the circumstances of your birth are to blame, maybe he thinks you should have died instead of some favored sibling or the other parent; maybe they find you the painful reminder of suspected infidelity; and/or maybe the parent is just... plain... evil. And doesn't like you.

The Bad Seed: In this scenario, the parent actually does love the child, at least a little, but there's something seriously wrong about that kid. And someone has to do something. The parent feels responsible for ending the reign of terror their evil offspring is about to unleash, but if someone has to take the child's life, the parent wants to be the one.

The Choice of Abraham: The parent loves the child. The child loves the parent. But some other overwhelming force is demanding a sacrifice. Maybe God is testing Abraham. Maybe the Greeks will rebel against Agamemnon if he doesn't bring his daughter Iphigenia to the sacrifice as he promised. Maybe the Nazis are making Sophie choose. Regardless, no one wants this, but it's going to happen anyway.In the worst case scenario, your entire species will be like this, in that case you get abusive alien parents.

Sadly, there have been many cases of real-life parents — both mothers and fathers — who murder their own children.

For the inversion/opposite of this trope, see self-made orphan and patricide.

This trope goes back to greek mythology with hesiod's Theogony, and even further to the Mesopotamian creation story Enuma Elish. has nothing to do with the offspring or offing the mouth.

