

We all know the chessmaster: he's got a plan ready to go months in advance, with every detail jotted down. If that plan fails, he's got backup after backup already in place.

Then you've got this guy. The Opportunistic Bastard doesn't have a plan, or at least not a clearly outlined one. He may have a vague goal that he's working towards, but when it comes to getting there, he's winging it. Other times the Opportunistic Bastard doesn't even have that going for him, and just latches onto other people's schemes in the name of making as much short term profit as he can.

As the name suggests, characters like this excel at grabbing onto the opportunities that others present. Unlike the chessmaster, who often fails when things don't go according to plan, the Opportunistic Bastard typically rolls well with unexpected results, exploiting every new circumstance to his own advantage. Where they tend to suffer is in the long term—a good opportunist can keep his head above water on any given day, but is ultimately going to crash and burn because they lack the vision to stay in it for the long haul. A particularly capable Opportunistic Bastard might actually be able to give the impression of being a Chessmaster, due to their ability to adapt to new situations, but even then, they are liable to paint themselves into a corner due to their lack of forethought.

Opportunists of this type are usually motivated only by their own self-interest. If their actions do benefit someone else, it's either accidental, or because that person belongs to the select group of people that our opportunist actually cares about. Similarly, they are rarely loyal to any cause larger than their personal self-advancement; if an Opportunistic Bastard has an ideology, it is likely to be ill-defined, self-serving, and/or shallow. As a result, this character is liable to be an antihero at best, and outright villain at worst.

Hierarchically they could be anyone from a minor character to the big bad himself. Compare/contrast the chessmaster. See also manipulative bastard and xanatos speed chess. Can easily become a wild card. Likely to be a dirty coward or to suffer from chronic backstabbing disorder. Might belong to les collaborateurs or even become the quisling.

 Char Aznable in the original  Madara Uchiha of     Kraven of the   Obadiah Hakeswill, Richard Shape's  Cavilo from  Benna Murcatto of  Lucius Malfoy of  In the  Angelus in Season 2 of    Gaston Bullock Means from   Crowley from  Calvin "Cheese" Wagstaff of  Ashur from   Benny from  Dimitri Rascalov of  Queen Anora from 