The Outside Context Villain is, quite simply, a curve ball that no one saw coming. They come from a different genre; none of the protagonists have any context to understand them.

He, she or "it" may be a mysterious foreigner from the next town over or a continent away, with skills, technology or mystic powers no one heard of, much less imagined. Or they may be a time traveler from the future... or the past, an invader from a parallel universe, outer space, or even stranger places. When they arrive, the heroes won't have any defenses in place capable of stopping them, no idea how to defend against their onslaught, and no clue what their end goal might be.Finding out the answers to the above questions will be the heroes' top priority. With luck they'll find scattered legends foretelling their arrival and possibly how they were beaten last time. If not, the professor might theorize all new means to defeat them. One popular method is to summon a hero from the same place or era to battle them, because this villain is so bad that even a random joe from the villain's home will at least have an idea how to stop them. Of course, said villain will likely assimilate better to the environment than such fish out of water heroes. If the Outsider is an interloper in an existing conflict, he may become a conflict killer that forces an enemy mine situation if he turns out to be eviler than thou.

Or, one could try simply coughing or sneezing on the newcomer, possibly infecting him with an alien disease against which he has no antibodies and killing him instantly.

Named for the Outside Context Problem from the iain m. banks book Excession (as seen in the quote above). The classic example he gives is a stable, powerful, and wealthy society suddenly facing a hostile invader whose advanced technology and bizarre philosophy are completely alien to them.Compare giant space flea from nowhere, but played dramatically. Compare also diabolus ex nihilo, where such a villain is used to shake things up and then discarded, and the spook, which might fit in the context but is still a surprise apparition. Contrast generic doomsday villain and normal fish in a tiny pond. Compare/Contrast genre refugee, for a more heroic example of this trope. No real life examples, please.



