Not mind control - body control!

Some guys just feel the need to be in control... of everything. Including you. No, not with possession, not through manipulation; we mean literally controlling your body, forcing you to move as he wishes, and turning you into his personal People Puppets.

Such a character, usually a villain, can control his victims' limbs as if they were marionettes on a set of strings. Sometimes he'll actually have a puppet-theme, and many a demonic dummy has powers like this to play on the irony of a person being puppet-ed by the puppets; but other times a character just happens to have this ability along with related psychic powers. In either case, those controlled will often move in marionette motion.

Either way, he can manipulate others' bodies while they're still in 'em, much to his victims' dismay... as said victims are usually conscious, confused, and complaining (sometimes loudly, to inform allies — and the audience — that "I ...can't... control my... body!") Or maybe they can only move the eyes. Most times, they haven't been brainwashed or anything, as they're protesting mightily — it's just that there's not much they can do about it. For some reason, many character's mouths seem to be immune to this, as they will often protest whatever it is that they're being made to do. This may be related to voices are mental.

Often shown by having the bad guy says "Kneel" to the person. The person says "I will never kneel before you". they duly get made to kneel.Occasionally corpses can be animated and used as People Puppets, but if a corpse's every motion is not explicitly controlled by its animator, then there's a good chance it's just an average zombie.

If it is the puppet's own weapon which is controlling them, they are a victim of weapon wields you.

The ability to turn people into People Puppets is often a very specific form of mind over matter.

Don't let this happen to you! Take a quick course in heroic willpower to build up resistance!

And, yes, there are erotic examples of this. Just use your imagination.

Subtrope of body snatcher. Compare with dead guy puppet. Not to be confused with puppet permutation, in which a character is transformed into a literal puppet. Also not to be confused with meat puppet which is a type of manipulated host. See also living doll collector; and playing with puppets for when the puppeteer starts toying with his puppet, usually in a cruel fashion.

