There are some people no one wants to be around, either due to smarminess or poor hygiene (or both!) they seem to ooze from every pore and make the air around them noxious, and anyone they touch will feel like immediately disinfecting the area. In the case of the Poisonous Person that is exactly the case. They are lethal to touch because their body naturally produces universally lethal toxins, emits radiation or carries a host of dangerous diseases. Of course, they are immune to these hazards, but not so everyone else.

There are a lot of ways this can happen: falling into a vat of chemicals or bio-hazards, becoming cursed as a walking wasteland or with an uncontrollable touch of death, or an autonomous deadly defense mechanism power that can't distinguish friend from foe. For extra angst (or yummies) the Poisonous Person kills those they touch because they must feed on their life energy.

This is one of those "powers" that are difficult to miss when they first manifest, usually resulting in a dead little sister at the hands of the Poisonous Person. Is it any wonder that they come to embrace bad powers, bad people and become villains? Of course they probably weren't nice to begin with. This kind of villain isn't just difficult to fight, but also very versatile in applying their power. They'll use the sweat from their brow to salt a field, fill darts with their poisonous tears, turn a bloody wound into their enemy's demise by cutting themselves to poison their blade. If their power is disease based, they make an excellent plaguemaster. Or they might end up as a hapless typhoid mary.

If they aren't evil, they'll usually get far, far away from anyone who they might hurt, like a modern day Medusa or King Midas... sans gold. If they're really lucky they'll have enough control of their power/curse to turn it on and off, or at least be able to live in urban areas by wearing full body outfits or hazmat suits.

It's worth noting that there is no "typical" Poisonous Person in terms of appearance. Some are mundane looking, others are astonishingly obvious as poisonous as Hazmat shows above, and a fair number are drop dead gorgeous. Why is it all the pretty things will kill you?Not a poisonous friend (though giving a character both tropes would be all sorts of appropriate). See also walking wasteland, enemy to all living things and technicolor toxin.

