

A villain held prisoner by the heroes continues to undermine their objectives through their toxic influence.

They have a tendency to spark disagreements between allies (up to and including the spread of a hate plague), use their captivity to shake the good guys' confidence in themselves or to make them feel uneasy by virtue of being closer around than they were as a free agent. Despite the heroes' best efforts, it's usually difficult to keep the villain in the dark about everything that's going on or prevent them from divining weak spots, so the longer they're held the more of a danger they pose, especially should they escape — meaning it's all but inevitable that they will.

Particularly dangerous cases may pose the threat of a hero's untimely corruption, if they start listening to the villain's cynical-but-persuasive advice, buying into their justifications for evil deeds, or being tempted by offers made in exchange for freedom.

Another common scenario is that the villain is held secretly, meaning that if word were to leak out, the captors run the risk of getting in serious trouble with their superiors, being deposed by their inferiors, or losing PR with the general populace.

All in all, it's a good reason to ignore thou shalt not kill, but the typical reason for keeping him around is that the villain has some kind of information the heroes need desperately enough for it to be worth the risk. In some cases, murder would be counterproductive or even impossible, if the captive is immortal.

May be a result of i surrender, suckers. Compare pity the kidnapper, a comedic version (which usually involves villains as captors rather than heroes), might as well not be in prison at all, and sealed evil in a can. Compare and Contrast defiant captive, who is more likely to be a heroic character refusing to submit to their captor. The inverted version often falls under talking your way out.

   The Thing Behind the Wall in  In  John Harrison  In  In the aptly-named movie   In   In the film  In  In  Following the vogue of recent movies, Silva in  In   In  In the   Ben from  A Silurian warrior woman in series 5 of   In  In  This is why the Brotherhood is trying to control The Darkness instead of destroying it in  At the end of  Cyndi from  This was   Batman does this in 