A dangerous villain or a brutal anti-hero, either a teenager or an adult, with a childlike nature, which creates a dissonance between innocence and savagery. Such characters can become repositories for nightmare fuel, especially if their childishness is never explained. Contrary to the term, many examples are not necessarily psychopaths in the clinical sense. misaimed fandom may not be out of the question, either; sometimes the character's more "moe" attributes will be picked up on and subjected to flanderization.

The exact extent of the character's childishness will vary, and in general Psychopathic Manchildren can come in several varieties, with possible overlap. Such a character may:

 Be  Seem superficially powerful and cruel, but have very childish or simplistic goals or motivations. May overlap with  Actually possess a lot of power, intelligence, and/or prestige, but also have some childish qualities or behaviors, to fit in with a certain aspect of the story being told, or else advertise that there is something seriously wrong with him/her, to make him/her  This one is a literal example: Appear  Be subject to a personal variation of  Be completely or largely inexplicable, and the discrepancy between the different parts of their personality Whichever version these types of characters qualify as, often they are not fully aware of how nasty their actions actually are. In some cases (though not all), a heel realization may cause the character to develop into a better person. A more innocent or well-intentioned Psychopathic Manchild may be a noble demon.

One way to use this character is to face him off against a jaded, cynical, or shady anti-hero, to play with traditional hero-villain relationships by making the villain more innocent than the hero (at least in theory). (Easier if he's a major villain in his own right.) Another interesting twist is to make this character the designated hero and match him with an affably evil villain.

When one of these is running a country or occupying a similar position of authority, you have the caligula.

The grown-up equivalent of creepy child and the near-inversion of enfante terrible. Contrast with sociopathic hero and the typically more benign man child. See also cute and psycho and ping pong naïveté. Related to, but distinct from, kids are cruel.

