The communist menace. Formerly a common villain source for big bad or henchmen villains in the spy drama, it's now pretty much a discredited trope since the end of the cold war, although an even more Eastern revival of sorts is possible (see below). Instead, rogue former Soviet scientists tend to be in vogue in the role of the mad scientist who works for the big bad, as well as ruthless Russian mafia types.

The Red Scare allows any of the presumably First World heroes to suddenly have counterparts in the East. The Red Scare can produce all manner of reasonably honorable characters that are nevertheless rivals of the heroes or antagonists simply because of geopolitics. Likewise, the Red Scare can include elements that are meant to invoke the fear of the Cold War as well. A general ripper character is often seen in this situation, usually on the American side but occasionally amongst the Soviets too.

Expect the technically inaccurate descriptor "Russians" to be used a lot. While much of the Soviet leadership was indeed Russian, some weren't, most particularly josef stalin, who was Georgian (and, no, we don't mean like jimmy carter).

The Red Scare is different from dirty communists due to the fact that Red Scare focuses on the overarching effect of the Cold War while dirty communists are merely horrible people that serve the Soviet State. There is significant overlap between the two groups, however. In general, one can be one of the dirty communists as well as being part of the Red Scare.

Ultimately, the Red Scare only qualifies if it is meant to invoke Cold War tensions and feelings as opposed to simply being Russian or communist villains. Communist China has also produced its own variety of dirty communist villains as well as Red Scare ones but not nearly, in the past, to the same extent. However, as memories of the Soviet Union fade, and China grows in economic and military power, the People's Republic seems to be emerging as the new "red menace" of choice (see also red china, yellow peril, and china takes over the world).

See also dirty communists.

Subtropes:

       Contrast why we are bummed communism fell.

