An acting ruler intends, plots, or schemes to retain power rather than surrender authority to the rightful ruler.

King Bob is dead, but Princess Alice is still a child. Regent Charlie is appointed to rule the land in her stead. This is a plum position with all the perks of royalty, but it comes with a built-in retirement date. When Princess Alice comes of age, Charlie must turn the country over to her, going in a day from the most powerful man in the kingdom to a mere nobody. But how is that fair? Charlie's been running everything, and he sees no reason to stop now.

If King Bob had the foresight (or the time) to chose a regent before his death, he might have appointed a close relative or a senior churchman, hoping their family ties or religious obligations would stop them from intriguing against the true heir. But this seldom works. Nor does appointing a regency council instead of a single person: that just adds vicious internal politics to the mix.

When Princess Alice is of age, the story can go several different ways. Perhaps Charlie becomes her evil chancellor and runs the kingdom through deception, manipulation, or some sort of evil control over Alice. If he's in line for the throne himself, he may become the evil prince. Other times he'll arrange for Alice to be kidnapped, killed, imprisoned, or discredited. In darker stories, he may attempt to marry alice. While such intergenerational political marriages were once common, the Regent's anticipation of the consummation often pushes him over the moral event horizon. If Charlie is already married, or forbidden to marry, he may arrange a marriage between alice and one of his family. Alternatively, Charlie may try to keep Alice ignorant of ruling and caught up in the pleasures and perks of being a princess — an infantile queen who still needs the regent's wise hand to steer her around.

Sometimes Regent Charlie is evil from the start, perhaps even having had a part in killing the old ruler, but other times he becomes corrupted over time by power and the fear of giving it up.

Once in a blue moon, the regent is only called Regent because the actual king has been gone for a very long time, and the people are (at least theoretically) awaiting his return. Since nobody wishes to disrespect the title of King, the actual ruler of the country is officially a mere steward, but in practice he is the reigning monarch in all but name.

There is also, of course, the possibility that Princess Alice is an absolute nightmare, and it is better to keep Charlie the regent and avoid queen alice the tyrant. Expect black and gray morality and other tropes of this nature to kick in as people question Charlie's legitimacy (which, admittedly, he lacks) and motives (which may well extend beyond altruistic intentions, especially if his struggles have made him cynical). this can ultimately lead to a horrible situation where both alice and charlie are monsters, forcing a third party to step in.

A Queen Mother acting as regent is more likely to act as my beloved smother.

A subtrope of in it for life. Contrast cincinnatus.

