Reptiles Are Abhorrent refers to the association between reptiles and villainy. This trope manifests itself in several basic ways. The simplest is to have reptiles that are consistently villainous. In animal stories, villains might be anthropomorphic versions of real life reptiles, while the heroes are cute mammals and birds. In speculative fiction, they might be fantastic beings such as lizard folk, snake people or reptilian aliens.

Even when the bad guys are not actual reptiles, they may have some sort of reptilian theme. Perhaps they are an animal-themed superbeing with reptile-related powers. The villain might have reptilian pets and/or exhibit a special empathy with reptiles. They may even be able to turn into giant snakes. Even if they have no special powers related to reptiles, they might use reptile related animal motifs and/or theme naming. The trope even turns up, if only by metaphor, in non-fiction; saying that someone is a "snake," "lizard," or "cold blooded" is enough to get across that you're dealing with a nasty character.

This trope is not applied with equal frequency and intensity to all reptiles. Snakes, crocodiles, and large lizards tend to be the reptiles most associated with villains. Meanwhile, turtles and small lizards like geckos and frilled lizards are seen as cute and harmless, and are less likely to be associated with villainy. Dinosaurs are also often exempt from this trope; whether they're good or evil usually depends on their diet. Stereotypically reptilian features such as fangs, claws, tails, visible scales, and slit pupils may distinguish villainous reptiles from friendly ones, as does the use of poison.

Amphibians often are portrayed this way too. Toads in particular have become heavily correlated with abhorrence due to their poisonous secretions, association with witches, and the myth that touching one will give you warts. However, there are many favorable depictions of frogs in fiction.

This is not a character trope. It is a pattern only visible when looking at an entire cast of characters. Merely having a few bad reptiles among a majority of good reptiles does not invoke this trope. When the only reptilian character in a work or the majority of the reptile-themed characters are bad guys, this trope is in play. This trope does not require that reptiles be always chaotic evil — there may be a few token good reptilians within a race of mostly evil reptiles as an example of my species doth protest too much.

Sometimes the trope in invoked in-universe. Characters may assume that reptiles are more likely to be evil, whether or not it's justified. In these cases you may have Reptiles Are Abhorrent crossed with fantastic racism.

If the expectation of reptiles being evil is set up and then overturned by the majority of such characters, the trope is being subverted. See playingwith.reptiles are abhorrent.

Reptiles Are Abhorrent is fairly consistent, but it's far from omnipresent, so do not list aversions. Do not list subversions unless they actually invoke this trope.

See also what measure is a non-cute?, never smile at a crocodile, scaled up, and fangs are evil. Compare cats are mean and you dirty rat. Contrast with turtle power and everything's better with dinosaurs. This is also closely related to good animals, evil animals.

