There's a common stock character, the grizzled old guy with a wealth of experience who'll share his views with a travelling band or bold young rookie. There's no more adventuring for this old timer. He's seen it all, done some good, maybe done some bad; but overall he has earned the right to put his troubles behind him in his twilight years. He may be the cool old guy or old master. Perhaps if life really got him down, he'll be a grumpy old man, and if someone manages to rub him up the old way you'll see he's a badass grandpa, but it's unlikely since some haunting experience makes him disinclined to take up arms again.

This is not that guy.The Retired Monster may look like that archetype but his past is full of evil and atrocity and he's okay with it. In fact, he caused most of it. When you first see him, he'll come across as affably evil; he'll also have experience and advice that he might give out to a young hero, although possibly the best he can do is "You should stay away from people like me". However, he'll be creepier than the other guy, and he'll tempt the young ones, giving them advice more on the cynical side of the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism. You see, he's not doing any gross evil acts now — he may not have done so much as run a red light in the past ten years — but that's only because he's tired. As the backstory of this character becomes known, we learn that they kicked the dog a number of times, perhaps took a hopscotch over the moral event horizon, only stopping because for some reason they got sick of it.

Perhaps he finally came out worse for wear after a run-in with the guy who's now the obi-wan. Maybe he was caught and sent into exile and now has at least enough fear of the authorities to not put a toe out of line. Then again, often, they have just literally retired, saying "I'm too old for this" and using their pension fund of nazi gold to support a life of margaritas on the beach.

They've never said sorry, or at least never meant it, there was no heel-face turn and they are not the atoner who'll help to make up for some wrong. No, they'll just sit back, but if a character underestimates their evil, if they think that because they aren't as bad as the more active monsters, that they're OK, they may get a horrid reminder of what the Retired Monster is capable of.Monsters who don't retire, or come out of retirement and continue to be evil in old age, can become evil old folks. sub-trope of karma houdini, due to the fact that very few of this type of character are found in jail. Compare the retired badass, one of several good counterparts, and the retired outlaw, which may occasionally overlap. Contrast the atoner.

