In an evil contrast to how much heroes love dogs, diabolical masterminds are cat people. If they don't have a face, they will always have a pet cat, usually some shade of white, sitting on their desk or in their lap, that they stroke as they describe their evil plan.

Why do bad guys like cats? Maybe because cats are mean — they kill birds and mice, just so they can offer you the corpse. Cats are lap-sized and perfect to pet while scheming. Or maybe it's because cats are superior and believe they are entitled to be worshipped and revered by humans, or deserve to take over the world themselves. Dogs are faithful and loyal, but cats are fickle with a superiority complex. Villains and cats just fit. It's the perfect accessory for a card-carrying villain.

The big bad's Right-Hand Cat will have varying degrees of a personality depending on the context of the series. Some will display sentient facial expressions and even an evil laugh, showing a morality in sync with their master's. Some just sit there, emotionless, yawning and purring like any other ordinary pet. Even in animation, the cat will probably never speak, but it will almost always have a name.

This may stem from the tradition that all witches have cats and often use cats as their familiars. See kindhearted cat lover for examples when a character simply likes having a cat around.

In real life, this is almost entirely untrue. Famous cat haters throughout history have included Caligula, Nero, Bonaparte, Hitler, and Stalin. Oddly, all of the above were fond of dogs, perhaps because of their obedient, worshipful nature. (Alternately, for a psychopath terrified of assassination, a german shepherd is a little more comforting than a tabby.)

However, Cardinal Richelieu was a famous cat-lover (he owned 14 cats at the time of his death) and he got a historical villain upgrade since alexandre dumas' The Three Musketeers. Most adaptations picture him petting a white cat while scheming, making Richelieu the likely trope maker.

Pirate captains will have a pirate parrot instead. See also feather boa constrictor, right-hand attack dog.

