Alright, the hero has saved the world, paid off his debts, and made time with that girl in the blue dress. His story is done, the credits have rolled, and there was no "to be continued", but what's this about a Sequel? What could the guy be in for now?

...Wait, who are these new people? And where's the character from the original?

WHAT?! he's a villain now?! What happened? He went rogue.

Usually, the new main character is locked out of the loop, and doesn't know something that the original character does, or the other way around (or perhaps both), and they're at odds over it. Of course, there might be other reasons, but in these cases it usually ends with the new characters and the original cast working along the same side.

Alternatively, the original character really has gone to the dark side for whatever reason. (or may have been there the whole time...)This often appears in video games, as a previous main character may be an excellent final exam boss or give the player a taste of power from their side as an Antagonist.

While it can appear that way, this isn't in effect in a p.o.v. sequel, given that said p.o.v. sequel is a retelling of the original story.

A subtrope of sudden sequel heel syndrome; also compare with not as you know them. Also note how these heroes seem to avert the bag of spilling. See also previous player-character cameo, when the old PC isn't a major antagonist.

Compare and contrast with fallen hero. Not to be confused with a hero who happens to be a rogue. Or rogue herself.

WARNING: Expect spoilers. Yomi in  Sasuke in  The final season of   Hal Jordan during Kyle Rayner's first days as  Frank Miller's take on     Clu has a small role in the original  Luc Deveraux spends most of the  Done in the live-action  Jacen Solo in      This is how you appear to your former squadmates in  Another  Lloyd Irving in  Isaac in  Caim, the protagonist of  In  Subverted in  In  You learn of a possessed and evil character in  Kain, the main character from  In  Clyde from  In  Misleading trailers were released to make it seem like this would be Yuri in  Richter Belmont was the main character of  Arguably   Mario in  Most main characters in  In  Ethan Waber in   In  J.C. Denton, the protagonist of  This seems to be the trend in the  The sympathetic and seemingly good-natured protagonist of  In  This happens quite a lot in the  The  In  In  During the events of   In  In  In  During Part III of  In  The protagonist of the original Japan-only   Aqualad in 