A sadist is someone that enjoys the suffering of others. This is the kind of character that takes pleasure in inflicting cold-blooded torture and psychological abuse. Whether it's physical or psychological, a sadist will take pleasure in making or seeing others suffer. Sometimes a sadist has a lack of empathy that stops that from feeling any guilt from the suffering they cause. However, that is not a prequisite. Most do indeed feel bad about their actions; they just enjoy it too much to stop.

The trope namer comes from a real life disorder called sadistic personality disorder. The word sadism itself originates from the marquis de sade, who was the author (and practitioner) of some rather sadistic works. The specific disorder was removed from the referenced Diagnosis and Statistics Manual after the 3rd edition (or rather, demoted to the "Other" section), partly due to fears of legal abuse (ie. the disorder being misused as a valid insanity defence), partly because the criteria was deemed flawed due to lack of research in the area.

Modern psychology has a much broader understanding of the term than listed above. In general, a sadist is anyone who seeks not only to harm another person, but to control or dominate them; others seek revenge (even pre-emptive revenge) for perceived slights, real or imagined, sometimes targeting innocent people as substitutes for the true subject of their wrath (eg. abusive parents); some are emotional vampires who like to experience terror by instilling it in others (kind of an inverse or twisted empathy); some take out their personal inadequacies, stresses or self-loathing on other people; and still others wish merely to feed their own ego- having power over another "proves" they are better than them; and some merely wish to see others suffer.

In practice, most sadists are not physically violent, and the ones who are usually come from a violent culture or background. Psychological and emotional sadism is much more common and, in some cases, much more sophisticated and harmful, being easier to disguise from either the victim or their loved ones. Its also, often, very mundane- the bad boss, the bully, and the domestic abuser are all often types of sadist. Many target family members in particular, as they are "safe" targets they can control easily, or otherwise go after someone who is in their power (eg. a mean boss with their employees, or a sadist teacher with their students) so that it becomes harder for them to resist. Others, including the nastier types of internet troll, prefer to target strangers and may hide their behaviour from those closest to them (at least, if they feel they will be judged for it), essentially leading a double-life.

The difference between the sociopath and the sadist is that the latter wants to hurt others; the former is defined by their utter indifference and lack of remorse, and typically cause harm only as a means to an end. A sadist is not necessarily devoid of guilt; rather, like the narcissist, they just ignore or find excuses for it, frequently blaming their victim ("You're stupid"; "you're weak"; "why did you make me hit you?", etc). That being said, the two disorders are highly comorbid, meaning that there are plenty of sadistic sociopaths and sociopathic sadists both in fiction and in Real Life. When sadism meets narcissism the results are equally ugly. serial killers and, indeed, many violent criminals and personalities, often have shades of all of the above. Many sadists won't see, or even consider the idea that there is a problem with their behaviour.

The difference between this trope and a blood knight is that a sadist may not even enjoy fighting. They simply love the misfortune of others. Whereas a blood knight will enjoy fighting his opponent, a sadist is perfectly fine with torturing a helpless victim. Expect them to take extreme actions to make their victim suffer as much as possible. That said, there are plenty of characters who fit both bills. The comedic sociopath is usually this trope played for laughs. See also it amused me (which may or may not include torture), hollywood personality disorders, soft-spoken sadist, and unsexy sadist. May overlap with ax-crazy, the sociopath, mad doctor, sadist teacher, depraved dentist, blood knight and loves the sound of screaming. Compare and contrast with combat sadomasochist, who's just as happy receiving pain as dishing it out. dystopia justifies the means often involves sadistic delight in the misery of a whole setting.

A sadist is quite capable of delving into stupid evil if they take their joy for harming others over actually choosing the more intelligent decision.

Note that within the bdsm subculture, a person who can only get off through hurting others is pretty uncommon. Actual sexual sadists absolutely exist, of course; they just very rarely hang out in that community.

