

When you look at a scary amoral religion, at first it seems to have no scruples whatsoever. The doctrine it preaches condones acts of unprecedented brutality. They stand on the brink of ending civilization as we know it, and all because their God says so.

They look like a religion of evil. They even act like a religion of evil. But somehow, they just aren't a religion of evil. They aren't taking over the world because their religion says that taking over the world just isn't the right thing to do. Nor are they overtly evil; oh sure, they perform acts of unthinkable depravity in the name of their God, but they aren’t just doing it for the evulz... they actually have a well-thought out and defensible reason for doing what they do.

Sometimes, in fact, morality plays absolutely no role at all in their ideology. The followers of the religion don't claim to have transcended the silly dichotomy between good and evil, nor do they think of themselves as impartial mediators between warring factions. Rather, the concepts of good and evil just don’t occur to them. If you asked them what they think of the whole good/evil thing, they'd look at you incredulously, as if you just asked them where their religion stands on the issue of albino octopuses named jerry.

You could probably cite culture clash and write this entire religion off as primitive and uncivilized, leaving them to their own devices, if they weren't in the habit of committing unforgivable atrocities in order to fulfill their ends.

The xenophobic form of this religion tends to have a full system of morality and justice for its own believers, who never think of extending the same courtesies to others. However, the religion may in fact lack any recognizable form of prejudice, in much the same way that humans rarely feel speciesist when swatting a fly.

Works very well when all the members of this religion were brought up in a mono-religious culture. If the god (or gods) of this religion actually exist, they may not actually endorse the behavior of their believers — though they may also be sufficiently alien as to be completely uninterested in morality (or at least morality as we know it). Tends to overlap with the "Aliens as Religious Fundamentalists" form of scary dogmatic aliens — massive cultural dissonance is easy to explain away when it is the byproduct of bizarre alien psychology, and it reduces the danger of the heroes capturing and instantly converting one or more of the zealots by simply pointing out that they're hurting people.

If the long-term goals of the religion's dogma include freeing their god of evil from his long imprisonment so that he may resume his reign of terror, then they're doing so not because they're deluded into believing that their god is made out of happiness and rainbows or because they plan to become his unholy rampaging army when he returns. Instead, they probably don't have any long-term plans once the magical shackles are broken. There may be a roaring rampage of revenge, but it's the god's revenge, not the worshipers'.

If the believers of this religion honestly think they're doing the right thing, then you're probably looking at a religion of knights templar. If the religion intentionally "goes for the evil points," or if the religion's dogma has no purpose besides simply promoting evil, then you've found a religion of evil.

See also moral myopia and blue and orange morality. Compare religion of evil and path of inspiration. Contrast scam religion, which is simply empty.

