







Hmm, what's this? Want to take over the world? Cause mayhem? Have you considered the sealed army in a can? Guaranteed to provide decades of destructive entertainment, try it today!

The sealed army in a can is an army that was so powerful that it was impossible to destroy them and the best that could be hoped for was sealing them away, usually at great cost. With works that employ this trope you can invariably expect that the big bad's master plan will revolve around awakening this army to do his bidding whether it be to take over the world or just break things. Often times you will get the sealed evil in a can thrown in with them as a nice bonus. Like the sealed evil in a can the fact that they were sealed away may have weakened them to the point they can be destroyed or technology has advanced to the point where it can get the job done. or not.Unlike a real army that is composed of individuals, the sealed in a can variety don't seem to have any sentience and will often mindlessly follow whoever freed them.

Can sometimes be used as sealed good in a can for a really big damn heroes moment; see also awakening the sleeping giant. In these cases they may not be quite as mindless. For several unique characters (often in separate "cans") see sealed cast in a multipack. For a single character in multiple "cans", see sealed evil in a six pack.

Sub-trope of badass army except more so (otherwise, what's the big problem?).

  Capone "Gang" Bege of  There also is an example in the  In  In    The Golden Army from  The buried alien army in  The   Bane creates a good version of the Sealed Army In A Can in  In  The Titans from  One of these were found under the Long Man in  In  In The Dragon in the Sword, by  The Horn of Valere from  In  The good version is found in  A variation appearing in    Used a number of times on  Played with an interesting twist in  At any given time the majority of the  The Season 2 finale of  The Bohrok swarms in   The Myrmidons in  There is a Polish legend that says an entire army of  The same functional legend for the Irish Fenians, who sleep under certain hills in Ireland.

 The  The Necrons from   The Spirit Army from  The Chimera from  In  The Terracotta Army is available as a wonder in  The second to last scenario of  The Darkspawn from  The Myrkridia, a terrifying race of  In  It's heavily implied that this happens to the   The Minion Hives in   While it's only described in detail  The  In     The Russian Navy is this, sealed away by its lack of any ports that don't freeze over except on the Black Sea where it is bottled up by Istanbul controlling the mouth. As a result several naval powers have had sort of a standing  Some strategic nuclear missile silos are estimated to be able remain functional for decades if not centuries without maintenance. A silo in Russia was recently discovered to have not only survived for two decades of abandonment, but was also able to keep the critical launch systems powered for all that time. The nukes themselves however have markedly shorter shelf life, as modern thermonuclear bombs require a can only maintain functionally for a maximum of ten years without having the tritium changed.

