Are you a chew toy, A woobie, a dogged nice guy or just generally pathetic? Are women avoiding you like plague? Do you feel existentially lost in a cruel and uncaring universe?The Sensei For Scoundrels might be the answer to your prayers. He is everything you wish you could be as a man: strong, attractive, fearless and a huge success with women. Of course, he's also probably deeply disturbed, and possibly very evil.The main character winds up following The sensei for scoundrels in the hopes of becoming the kind of man he always wanted to be. In a lighter and softer story, the main character will very often end up rejecting the sensei's advice by the end and win the girl on his own terms. In darker and edgier works, the hero very often ends up becoming as bad as the mentor and loses all of his positive characteristics in the process.

Of course, it's also possible the mentor is perfectly respectable and our protagonist will end up better for the experience.

These guys also exist in real life, though they're usually not quite as psycho and probably are financially motivated.

Compare and Contrast the big brother mentor whose relationship with the protagonist is a bit more friendly and has fewer unfortunate drawbacks. There's a certain amount of overlap with the manic pixie dream girl, considering both are slightly unhinged characters who encourage a tightly-wound protagonist to relax and have a little more fun in his miserable life.

See also evil mentor.

  Kensei Ma and Sakaki Shio of  Jack Rakan of  The  Subverted in  Tyler Durden from  Frank T.J. Mackey from  Dr. P from  The titular Roger of  Trent and Sue from  Robert Morse's character to Walter Matthau's in  Will Ferrell's part in  Talby in   Stanley Ipkiss' unrestrained   Yunior from  This trope was initially named for Tyler Durden in   Dean Moriarty in  Lord Henry to the titular character in   Tully is this to George on  Sam Adama from  Jordan Chase in the 5th season of  The  Parodied in  Barney really  Russell acts as one to an Amish boy on his Rumspringa in the   Mystery and Neil Strauss built their real life careers on this sort of thing. (See Literature)

  The perfectly-respectable variant is used in  In   A Pimp Named Slickback from  Parodied in 