Which cop show has one not appeared in?

A Serial Killer is defined as someone who commits multiple murders, out of some kind of mental or sexual compulsion, in separate incidents with at least a few days in between killings. This is their "cooling off" period, when they temporarily lose the compulsion to kill, and distinguishes them from Spree Killers, who kill in much more regular intervals of weeks or days, if they don't simply go on a murderous rampage that usually ends only when someone captures or kills them. The minimum death toll to be classified as a serial killer is 3-5 people, providing they were killed in separate incidents over a period of more than 30 days. If numerous people are killed in a single incident (e.g. someone murders an entire family in their home), that is mass murder, though mass murderers can and do become serial killers if they act multiple times.

real life serial killers are usually divided into 4 categories, and fictional killers tend to fall into one or more of these categories as well, if not by design, then by their nature.

    In addition, as mentioned, there are several sub-types of these killers that fit into the above categories. Some examples include:

              Serial killers can further be divided into Organized and Disorganized. The former plan their crimes carefully and often well in advance, and are thus always premeditated. They may even hold a stable job and have a good education, and appear perfectly normal in every way. Such people are very likely to be the chessmaster. The latter are much more impulsive and careless; their crimes may or may not be premeditated, and they are recklessly executed when they are, without due care for witnesses or leaving evidence. These tend to be poorly educated and not in steady employment.

The following things tend to occur in a serial killer plot: The killer sends a note to the police, or a newspaper, or both, with a  Serial killers are often, but not always, portrayed as  They have a  If it's part of a  At the climax, one of the cops is usually  If the killer is not depicted as  If somebody else is wrongfully implicated, and looks close to taking the rap,  The killer might leave a distinctive  The killer might be a  Or they're a  The killer will  Some of these plots have the Serial Killer plots tend to be men killing women, although The Bill subverted this. This is somewhat realistic, however, because in the real world, the vast majority of serial killers are men — or, more exactly, men tend to murder in ways that make it easier for them to get caught. Female serial killers will typically be Angels of Death and may work in health care or similar vocations. In fiction, they'll often have a torture cellar or do their killings in a sinister subway.

Over the last few years, daytime soaps have had an unusually high number of serial killers. One Life to Live has had at least two in as many years. It's the chic way for producers to pare down their casts.

It's notable that many of these behaviors are realistic for serial killers, though seeing all of them with one killer is unlikely. Also notable is the fact that they are practically never allowed to go uncaught by the end, despite many of the most famous unsolved cases in history being serial killer investigations.

Sometimes they are more like a so-called 'Spree killer', i.e. someone who goes on a murderous rampage in a smaller area over a shorter time.

In fact, this is more common than actual serial killers, though characters often confuse the two, as time contraints mean the killings in a story usually take place over the space of a few days, whereas real serial killers by definition usually have weeks, months, or years between their kills.

A counterpart to the serial rapist; it's not uncommon for the tropes to overlap. Compare with psycho for hire, where a job that requires killing people is used by villains to act out their sadism. See also hunting the most dangerous game, where someone makes an actual sport out of killing people. The killer feared by other killers is a serial-killer killer.

Note that the Real Life section below is only a very small sampling of well-known serial murderers. Also, many potential Serial Killers get caught quickly because they use an MO, and also because a lot of them are so sick and broken that they want to get caught — yes, they see it as some kind of game.

