We all know that rape is a special kind of evil. So what's the only thing worse than a rapist? A Serial Rapist.

As the name would indicate, a Serial Rapist is a character who commits (or attempts to commit) three or more rapes, with a cooling off period in-between. The reasons for their actions may vary. Perhaps they suffer from some form of sexual dysfunction, and can only achieve gratification through the infliction of sexual violence on others. Perhaps they feel they have been wronged by the opposite sex, and are trying to gain their "revenge". Perhaps they have a psychological need to dominate others. Or perhaps they are just a psychopath, for whom sexual violence is simply another outlet for their antisocial tendencies. Irrespective of motivations, expect this character to be one of the most vile in the setting.

The Serial Rapist is usually male and his victims are usually female, but there are exceptions. Male/female, female/male, male/male, and female/female violence are all possible, particularly given the existence of the depraved homosexual and depraved bisexual tropes. Adult/child and adult/teen predation is also common, given our fears of paedophiles and ephebophiles, and serial rapists of this nature are considered especially vile. Might overlap with serial killer if he/she kills their victims after the fact. Given the generally squicky nature of the topic, Serial Rapists feature less frequently in police shows than Serial Killers, but they are still a relatively common occurence, and will usually evoke revulsion and disgust from the rest of the cast — including other villains.

Compare/contrast their pathological cousins, the serial killer and pyromaniac. Liable to be a sadist. See also rape is a special kind of evil and sometimes murderers are rapists (when those who've killed people are also depicted as having raped them.)

 Wyald from  The  Shira from  From the manga  In  In  Junior Roark of  Hawley Griffin of  Willy Pete of  Junior of  Dr. Arthur Light of DC Comics was turned into this in  In Marvel's  In  In  One of the most vile foes of    Stans from   In the sex comedy  The  In   The major reveal in   Given its medieval setting, there's a fair amount of rape in  Many, many villains in  We learn in the third book of  William Hamleigh, the        The Carver from   Jordan Chase and his followers, the Barrel Girl Gang, from  The    Several villains on  In  In the  In the backstory of Theo Bell in  Bann Vaughan Kendells from  From  Ronald Taylor from  In  Red, aka 