Is there a worse job to have than being a messenger for a major villain? The hours are long, the pay is low, your boss thinks that the world revolves around him, and likes to abuse his men for fun, and remember that dental plan that led you to join in the first place? Yeah, that got canceled last year.

And then there's the very worst part of being a big bad's messenger: bring him a message with bad news, any bad news, (even just something small like that his mother is running 10 minutes late for the party) and he'll flip out, fly into a rage, and kill you. Why? Because you're the closest thing to him when he gets the bad news, and you're expendable. maybe it's time to see if the heroes need some extra help or sidekicks.

The origin of the trope leads back to ancient Greece at least. One possible theory (besides the king being affected with pride) is that the messenger was a defeated or losing general's son, and that his death was punishment for failure. It's also such a common cliche that the evil overlord list took time to specifically mention it, as evidenced by the page quote.

By the way, remember when we told the worst was bringing your master a bad news? we lied. The worst is bringing someone else a message from your master. Such as an ultimatum. The recipient is guaranteed to reply, in a non-ambiguous way, that he will have none of it; and by "non-ambiguous", we mean by sending your head back. without the rest of your body. Also note that even the "good guys" might do this, especially anti heroes. Its depressing regularity in the ancient world led to the first rule of international law: Diplomatic Immunity. In the end, everyone (even genghis khan, who destroyed multiple empires) thought it was just a little unfair to the messengers. In fact, Genghis Khan wiped out one of those empires because they killed some of his messengers.

When villains do this, it is generally done as a subtrope of you have failed me and bearer of bad news, and is a way to kick the dog by killing the person who annoys you despite their innocence. And if you're in a story featuring black and grey morality, do whatever it takes to get out of delivering a message, since your life expectancy is slightly shorter than that of a guy standing on top of skyscraper in a thunderstorm saying "what's the worst that could happen?" It's also usually a subtrope of aggressive negotiations. Guys, the messengers are coming in peace.When heroes do this (to enemy diplomats, never their own servants), it's because the messenger was a bad guy anyway, so why not murder him when he isn't making any threats? Some shows make the messenger look particularly evil to avoid the negative aspects of this trope.

"I'm just the messenger" is a stock phrase used to remind people that this trope isn't really fair, and is fairly likely to work.

Not to be confused with please shoot the messenger, where the recipient is actively instructed by the message to kill the person who delivered it. Overlap with offing the annoyance is likely. Compare offing the mouth, which would be something like "Shoot the deadpan snarker".

