







Much like how anti-heroes can be vastly different from each other, so can anti-villains. This scale is a measure of how evil an Anti-Villain is. Inversely related to sliding scale of antagonist vileness. Can contribute to sliding scale of villain threat and sliding scale of villain effectiveness. Compare with sliding scale of anti-heroes.

Type I, Type II, and Type III usually can be evil, although they average out at a darker shade of grey. Type IV characters are a light grey at their worst, and good characters aimed at greater goods at their best.

Works with an enlightenment leaning tend to make frequent use of Type II and Type III anti villains,showing the villain as a product of society or simply misguided.

Although he chooses to be evil and may in fact embrace his villainous reputation, when the time comes for him to walk the walk, he turns away. This type of anti villain has a set of standards, certain lines that he will never cross. As such, he is the first one to say even evil has standards when faced with someone who offends said code of conduct. Unlikely to kick the dog but will pet the dog. Often accompanied by a morality pet. Alternatively, villainy is just a job to put food on the table, thus it's never personal. Placed higher on the evilness scale than type II because villainy is a choice for them rather than something that they are driven to. The type I is the common definition of the Anti-Villain. Those in this category may become true villains if they start to overcome their restraints.

The defining Trope for this type of Anti-Villain would be the Noble Demon.

Related Tropes: hitman with a heart, minion with an f in evil, would not shoot a civilian,  never hurt an innocent, even evil has standards, wouldn't hurt a child, noble top enforcer and my master, right or wrong.



It's obvious that these types of villains don't WANT to be evil; circumstances just make them out to be. They may act out of undying loyalty or love for someone or maybe they're simply fighting for their own survival. Others are broken cuties who have snapped and want to end their suffering by destroying everything. Usually they are suffering from their alignment. The characters garner our sympathy not because their goal is good but because we can see how the crapsack world made them the way they are. Often suffer from a damaged psyche. Anti-Villains in this category may become true villains, but they're also just as likely to turn into an Anti-Hero.

A lot (although by no means all) of buffyverse vampires/demons fall into this category. They will tend to be driven to their villainous acts by something within their biology. One example would be vampires who don't necessarily want to kill people, but it's simply that they find human blood to be much more nutritious or tastier than that of animals.

The defining trope for this type of Anti-Villain would be a Woobie, Destroyer of Worlds.

Related Tropes: sympathetic murderer, jerkass woobie, tragic villain, and a typical dark magical girl.

The well-intentioned extremist. They may believe in a good goal, but use whatever means there are to achieve it. The sympathy the audience can garner for this character comes from the fact that they basically share the same goal as the hero, but are pragmatically, expediently, or pessimistically, ruthless about it. They can very much be conscious about their morally questionable actions, but feel that there is no other way. Common antagonist in white and grey morality scenarios and relatively likely to be redeemed if shown the error of their ways depending on how "extremist" they are. These Anti-Villains may become more malicious true villains, but they are more likely to either stay in this category or possibly become a Type IV Anti-Villain or an Anti-Hero. The Type IV can also be a revolutionary of some sort, fighting against the main character only due to their affiliation to some government or organization, and usually fighting for a noble cause. Alternatively, they may not even realize what they're doing is wrong or making things worse in the first place. The more heroic examples tend to overlap with either unscrupulous hero, or nominal hero.

The defining Trope for this type of Anti-Villain would be the Well-Intentioned Extremist, of course.

Related Tropes: necessarily evil, obliviously evil, totalitarian utilitarian, utopia justifies the means, villainy-free villain.

These characters either lack any villainous traits whatsoever or have so much concern over others that any signs of villainy are nearly completely drowned out. Frequently, these characters are called villains only because they fight against the hero. Basically, these guys are NEVER actively malevolent. They usually have some other reason for opposing the hero besides evil schemes. Ironically, these characters can be extremely dangerous to the hero as their high skill at arms/competence more than makes up for their lack of vileness. Fighting them also poses a moral dilemma which can also sap the hero's morale. It is at this point where an anti-villain starts to blur with the hero antagonist. Having to kill a particularly well liked type IV in a boss fight can be a player punch. Their deaths are extremely likely to be a tear jerker.

Related Tropes: more benign my country, right or wrong or my master, right or wrong, non-malicious monster, punch clock villain, noble top enforcer (when not a Type I), mild examples of necessarily evil, those who are forced into evil, and occasionally a token good teammate (when amongst a bunch of scumbags).

