Villains will appear in strictly ascending order by menace.

This trope has ancient roots. Possibly the earliest example, at least in the English language, is the older than print epic Beowulf. It just makes good sense that as our heroes fight the forces of evil, they should get better at fighting the forces of evil. So as the story progresses, the fights should get easier and easier. Of course, having an overly easy fight is just bad drama, so you have to consistently increase the threat the heroes face. This results in the sorting algorithm of evil. The first villain you meet is the weakest, and the last is the strongest. As the heroes get strong enough to defeat their current enemy, a new enemy will emerge that forces them to reach another skill level. It would be an anti-climax if the hero defeated the Baddest Ass and spent the remaining time contending with not-quite-as-Bad Asses.

There are several ways to justify this; due to lowered monster difficulty, the current villain usually forgot to level grind while the heroes are out collecting twenty bear asses and are gonna fly now thereby outclassing him. This at least provides an in-story explanation for the lamarckian evolution of evil from one bad guy to the next. In some cases the big bad the heroes defeated last time was actually a mere member of a powerful organization. The others can show up to avenge their fallen comrade, so now we have the previous big bad times two or more. One of the more realistic possibilities, albeit one that's hard to justify in many stories, is a tournament structure, where the opponents become more formidable the closer the heroes get to the championship. In a series centering around military technology this can be explained by technological progress. The heroes will get new weapons, strategies, and better technology, but so will the enemy.

Occasionally, a particularly strong or evil villain will ignore this trope and arrive early to beat the hell out of the heroes, only to leave them alive because they're not worth killing. Villains who use this as a tool are often not so harmless villains. Sometimes, rather than toss a stronger villain at the heroes the writer might decide to surprise them with an outside-context villain that uses different tactics than brute force.

A problem comes up if a long-running show goes past its first grand finale. We may believe that the ultimate evil overlord is enough of a tactical dunce to think that sending his henchmen out in ascending order was a valid strategy. But why should the new, unrelated, big bad happen to be even stronger? Sometimes the big bads might form a string of men behind the men, making this structure more sensible. Although this leads to new fridge logic issues: why doesn't the Man Most Behind use the unimaginable power of his position to just wipe all the heroes out instead of just sitting there? If the first Big Bad is only a local terror, bigger bads may not have even been aware of the heroes. The increasing threats they face are a reflection of the threat they pose to the ultimate boss. And then there's the fridge logic that can rise when one wonders why later, more powerful villains would tolerate the earlier, weaker ones hatching plots of their own. If the villain of Season Three wants to destroy the world, and the villain of Season Four wants to conquer it, why would the Season Four villain tolerate his predecessor's attempts to destroy it? One way to address these issues is to make the later villain a sealed evil in a can who only gets released after the earlier villain is defeated, not necessarily as a result of it.

Another downside of this trope is viewers who get into a show later may find early villains lame by comparison when they go back to catch up - "Pshaw — we're supposed to be worried about this guy? he can't even blow up a galaxy!" villain decay can be used to soften this blow; if the big bad ends the season a lot lamer than he started, the next season's enemy doesn't have to actually be any stronger to give the impression of an increasing level of tension.

This trope is particularly common in roleplay games and video games: the more and stronger enemies you fight, the more experience and power you get. You also get the magical weapons and armors they drop. You have no chance against mid-game monsters with a starting character, but by the time you get to them, you are ready. That makes this the perfect trope for a small steps hero, since they can clean up the world one bad guy at a time.

Related to convenient questing where ascending menace is laid out geographically, and the player must proceed through these regions in strictly ascending order by menace. (mount doom? It's right over there, but you have to go through the hills of moderate evil, which are themselves on the far side of the forest of inconvenience, reachable via the ghibli hills.)

When this happens involving entire breeds/species of villains, it's changing the villain pedigree. If it's because various villains were sealed away it's sealed cast in a multipack. If a particularly powerful villain remains on screen for too long and can't keep up, compare lowered monster difficulty.

See also sliding scale of villain threat, which breaks down the scales of villainy.

Contrast evil evolves.

Compare always a bigger fish, lensman arms race, so last season, sequel escalation, rule of escalating threat.

Since the examples on this page necessarily detail most of or the entire run of their series and what villain later gets replaced by whom, beware of spoilers.