Sometimes parents really want their kids to become child stars. However, they tend to interfere in the actual work, causing problems in the very works they want to make their children stars. Often they can help their kids start successful careers, but in fiction, it's very rare.

Similar in theme to an education mama, but usually presented as more malicious, as she persecutes other people's children as well as being pushy to the point of insanity with her own. She'll often have self-serving reasons for pushing her kids into showbiz (as demonstrated by the above quote), using them to vicariously experience the fame and fortune that she had dreamed of, and possibly being a failed actress or musician herself. In this case, the trope overlaps with coattail-riding relative. The kid will often turn out to be the worst kind of former child star if she isn't brought into check.

Stage Mom's may also take on a late role, suddenly interfering with a long lost son or daughter's off-screen fame and manipulate said famous kin's exploitable trait (such as being kind and/or aloof to the Stage Mom and his/her agenda), which will near enough always turn on it's head at some point in the story (as good will always triumph over evil etc.) and the Stage Mom will realise what a bad parent they have been, which may or may not be followed by the child doing something to wrap up the plot so that writers don't have to worry about that plot point anymore, such as disowning them, or that they aren't mentioned afterwards. Late Stage Moms are often the result of loose ends involving the Parent and Child.

This is almost always female for cultural reasons. A man is expected to earn stuff on their own, and if he and his wife are both pushy stage parents the wife is usually the one on the scene to take the blame (see shirley temple). If a dad is the pushy parent, it's more likely to be in sports rather than showbiz, as becoming an athlete is a more socially-acceptable boyhood dream than singing (with the exception of maybe becoming a rock star), dancing, or acting due to the stereotype that such aspirations are effeminate for boys. The "living their childhood dreams through their kids" aspect will often be out in full force in this case.

Not wanting to deal with stage moms is one of the many reasons why dawson casting exists.

