A character noted for their obsession with another character. They claim that the motivation for their morally outrageous acts is a simple wish to gain attention from the crush-ee. Alternatively, the obsession may be explained as a misguided desire to "protect"  the crush-ee, whether or not the crush-ee wants or needs such "protection". In any case, the more sincere they seem, the creepier they are.Why does this happen? Because love makes you evil, and "if i can't have you, No One Will!"

There'll usually be a double standard at play with this trope. Male stalkers are more likely to be portrayed unsympathetically, and as an actual danger to their object of obsession. female stalkers, by contrast, are likely to be portrayed sympathetically, and typically portrayed as charming or cute (though beware the woman scorned!).

This can be a minor character who is seduced to evil by the tragic dream of being able to get who they want.

If the stalker manages to score because he's a stalker, it's because the target believes stalking is love.

If the stalker is chasing a celebrity, especially one who didn't know them before the stalking began, they're a loony fan.

If the stalker sticks to a "hands-off" approach and simply attempts to spy on their target in explicit situations, they are the peeping tom.

If the stalker wants their target's DNA as much as (if not more than) their love, that's a stalker with a test tube.

Contrast with abhorrent admirer, where a hollywood homely or average woman is considered the worst thing in the world simply because she is attracted to the protagonist, even though no stalking takes place. See also all take and no give.

If a male stalker is particularly wrong genre savvy about his role and reception, he's most likely also a prince charming wannabe or convinced he's a dogged nice guy. Can easily double as a crazy jealous guy. A hollywood restraining order may be mentioned.

If the stalker's crush makes them go ax-crazy at anyone who tries to interfere or even the crush-ee, the stalker is a yandere, especially if she's female.

Compare AND contrast with stalker without a crush, who can either seem similar to this through the "does this remind you of anything?" approach and/or become this through character development.

               