

Running the empire is hard work. No Dark Lord, no matter how powerful and feared, can manage everything on his own and a military-style hierarchy is usually the best of delegating tasks to the various henchmen and minions. As a result, if the heroes wind up having to topple the empire, they'll end up going against a standard evil empire hierarchy.

Unlike a five-bad band, which tends to be fought as a group, a standard evil empire hierarchy is defined by the roles they have within a larger Imperial hierarchy. Each member will be encountered individually, either with their assembled mooks or by themselves. In addition, the members rarely deal with each other unless the Emperor calls them for a joint meeting. infighting is common as they all attempt to assert their authority and it's not unheard-of for one boss to aid the heroes, only to turn on them afterward.One of the hallmarks of the hierarchy is that there is often no clear-cut dragon role, as all of the bosses answer directly to the Emperor himself. The hierarchy usually consists of:

  The Right Hand: Commonly the Emperor's bodyguard, the Right Hand will often exist outside of the official military and police structure. While his position makes him most likely to be a clear-cut Dragon, it's also possible for him to be  The General: Leader of the Empire's military. Most likely to be portrayed sympathetically, The General could very well be a  The Guard: In contrast to The General, who is in command of the field armies, The Guard is in command of a high-profile prison, fortress or other stationary strong-point. They will likely contrast with The General and be portrayed far less sympathetically, sitting back in their comfy, well-protected stronghold. Expect him to be any combination of  The Security Officer: Is in charge of the  The  The Oddball: If The Right Hand or The Psycho Ranger don't fall under this, expect The Oddball to be a  Compare and contrast with the five-bad band, standard evil organization squad and power stable.

