Leaders, especially ones for ideologically motivated organizations, are expected to have the ultimate dedication to this cause. Be they a well-intentioned extremist, knight templar, or even dark messiah, this leader dedicates themselves to a cause and is willing to die for it, and at times suggests that the end justifies the means.Then there's the Straw Hypocrite. This villain (and it usually is a villain) will exhibit their dastardly plot and expose their "good" cause as a smokescreen to some hidden agenda that the villain has. If this happens, then it may be part of revealing the evil plan or the hero discovering it on his own, but often it is to show just how flawed their painted-on ideology is. Any gullible lemmings or black shirts who worship or follow them will quickly disperse or switch sides.

Unlike a regular hypocrite, whose behavior fails to square with his or her publicly expressed (and sincerely held) moral standards due to ordinary human weakness, the Straw Hypocrite does not actually believe in their cause in the slightest and merely uses it as a cover to another end. An author on board might even use the straw hypocrite to discredit the cause they're championing as nothing more than a boat for the evil to commandeer. In this case, they are a Straw hypocrite in the sense that they are not true believers and sometimes used as a strawman political for an author. Unfortunately, by exposing the character as disloyal to their cause, the author fails to properly address the cause itself.

The Straw Hypocrite is not always a tool for an author tract, though: well written, a Straw Hypocrite can make a great magnificent bastard. Sometimes, his existence will be a used by an author who does not want to take sides in an argument; in this case, the ideology, philosophy, religion, or cause the Straw Hypocrite seems to embrace is not in itself "evil" or worthless, and the author may even allow a more idealistic/honest character to take over the political/religious/philosophical organization after the demise of the straw hypocrite to show that they just needed a leader who actually believes what he says. Finally, if the Straw Hypocrite is in an organization that is unquestionably evil (such as the Nazi Party) it can be shown that even evil has standards or set up a conspiracy redemption.

Depending on one's level of cynicism, of course, this may be regarded as truth in television.

Compare straw traitor. May be used as part of a debate and switch. An important leadership position in the path of inspiration or scam religion. Very common with knight templar types, to argue that the high standard they set is impossible (though ordinary hypocrites are arguably even more common).

