The Straw Nihilist is an extreme version of the cynic and a specific type of the philosopher who delivers despair speeches and breaking lectures about Life, The Universe, and Everything (or at least how meaningless it is to fight for any of them), often chewing the scenery about how the hero/audience lives on an insignificant little blue planet and morality never existed in the first place. Often above good and evil, due to the Straw Nihilist's armor piercing questions about "what is evil?". This can even be mixed with a belief in a higher meaning in life, where the Nihilist claims that the higher meaning is a reason to neglect the life that he has.

The basis for the Straw Nihilist is usually extreme scientific empirical materialism; we're all nothing but matter and energy and eventually the universe is going to die as if we never existed, so what's the point in trying to hope and fantasize in a world full of suffering and destruction where morality is dictated by force. Your consciousness is merely an electrochemical reaction inside a dying chemical reactor called the brain which, out of animalistic instincts to protect itself from pain, creates the illusion of meaning and significance in a reality that has none. Good, evil, morality and thought are nothing but illusions, with no absolute standard in the universe by which to prove their absolute existence as immutable physical laws.

These are one of the inhabitants of the cynicism side of the sliding scale of idealism vs. cynicism. Their ability to play existential mind games and force the audience into ethical dilemmas make them a popular sage in the ontological mystery genre and amoral crapsack worlds. Sometimes they serve as mr. exposition, while other times, everything they say is a fauxlosophic narration or even a red herring, or they're a mix of all of them. But if done badly, they can end up looking like a gratuitous scene of wangst, making people only get puzzled on why they haven't killed themselves yet.

The Straw Nihilist's behavior is often expected to be like that of the hedonist or the sociopath, since if he doesn't subscribe in morality then he has no restraint in pursuing his instinctual desires. Said hedonism can serve as a justification on why he has not killed himself yet, because he's having too much fun. In more straightforward science fiction and fantasy stories, they are usually villains who are always preaching hate and plotting destruction, and can get really over the top in their behavior. They also often use no good deed goes unpunished and being good sucks as freudian excuses on why they have a nihilistic outlook on life.

Note that nihilism is simply the belief that life is without objective meaning, purpose, or intrinsic value. This trope is known as "straw" because it's a stereotype that rarely applies to real nihilists.

Compare the social darwinist and the fatalist. Contrast the anti-nihilist, who also thinks life has no inherent meaning yet reaches inverse conclusions about morality and the value of life. See also the unfettered, what they end up as because of their dedication to their philosophy, and virtue is weakness, who believes that morality is a flaw rather than pointless (though it's not uncommon for many villains to believe both).

This trope mostly applies to a negative portrayal of existential nihilism. For a true approximation of moral nihilisim, see above good and evil and blue and orange morality.

