

So your story was a smash success, and you've gotten enough interest or capital to do a sequel. However, you fear that you fully explored all of the characters in the first story and of course it would stale your writing ability to retread the same characters and events from the first story. So you need a way to not only stretch your storytelling chops, but also hand out enough shocking swerves to keep the audience surprised. How do you do this?

Why, by turning one of the main good guys into a bad guy!when done correctly, a face-heel turn can be shocking, compelling and tragic. Few things tug at the heartstrings like when a cutie is broken or when the paragon crosses the despair event horizon and goes bonkers over the unfairness of it all. when done poorly, the turn comes out of absolutely nowhere or betrays the expectations that had been set by the character's portrayal up til then. Audiences tend to become attached to their heroes and some become more "icons" than characters, leading to the audience feeling betrayed by not only that character, but the writers themselves.

If this is a prequel, and an enemy from the original is part of the group, then this is doomed by canon to happen.

A subtrope of face-heel turn. Separate from (but not mutually exclusive to) sudden sequel death syndrome.

super trope of rogue protagonist, fallen hero, and the paragon always rebels. See also ron the death eater for fanfiction, and adaptational villainy.

WARNING: May contain spoilers. Joker, the head of the British Library special forces in   In the sequel to  In the third season of  Season 3 of  Comics in general loves a  Inverted in  In  In the original    The first  In the first story of G.K. Chesterton's  In  Sikozu in  In  During the original run of  Nicholas Adamsworth (voiced by Dick Beals), a minor character from   Gray Fox, Schneider and Dr. Pettrovich were originally on Solid Snake's side in the first  In the 2009   Lloyd Irving in  In the  This happens to heroine turned  Vladimir Lem in     The  In    Leon Silverburg in the   In Season Two of  In   In  In the first episode of 