In their strain to try and be taken seriously, teenagers are susceptible, gullible, and downright dangerous to anyone who wants to manipulate them. These are the best targets for demons, vampires or the virus. Sometimes they're just delinquents with no respect, but are only a hair's breadth of sanity from shooting up an entire classroom, especially if you call them just a kid.

Much of this trope is fueled by a distrust in teenagers by the adult population. Not to mention, many parents of young children dread the moment when their innocent little angels become sassy, hormonally-imbalanced drama-magnets. However, television producers are often worried about offending the very lucrative 15- to 27-year-old market, so we'll usually see that the heroes are also teens, or at least one very "good" prominent one.

Ironically, the much milder version of this trope occurs with shows aimed toward younger children, who find teenagers cryptic, pushy, and intimidating for other reasons.

Some cases of royal brats can be attributed to this trope. This trope may also be lampshaded further still by invocations of how the teenage monsters in question used to be sweet kids. If teen monsters run society, it's a teenage wasteland. See also big brother bully, kids are cruel, and humans are bastards.

Why do they act this way? Some do because they don't know any better. Some others however do, and know they will get away with it because of their age. Some again do so for the evulz. Whatever the reasoning, the results are basically the same.

Of course, this can be, on an individual basis, truth in television (ask any High School or Middle School teacher); there are monster teens in real life in the same fashion that we can find some mean kids and cruel adults. The mere fact of being a teenager doesn't make people automatically good or evil; it does, however, make any given person more susceptible to reckless or selfish behavior than they otherwise would be as an adult, for biological reasons. This makes it all the more commendable and impressive when a teen acts maturely, responsibly, or selflessly in situations where it would be difficult or unexpected for an average adult to act that way.

