A trope of yesteryear, born from the eighties' DARE programs and resulting commercials, "inspirational films", and very special episodes.

The Aggressive Drug Dealer is out there trying to force your kids into doing drugs. He won't take no for an answer, and will seek out and use intimidation just to coerce his target. So a type of training is required to "just say no."This isn't how it happens. No drug dealer in their right mind would attract attention to themselves this way, especially not in the middle-class environs these commercials are aimed at. Any who do will get caught very quickly, and be far less likely to actually get customers. Also, the purpose of selling drugs is to make money — yet many of these types of films seem to imply that dealers are just really evil people who like getting little kids hooked on drugs, even if they have to give said drugs away for free. The dealer giving away free drugs or forcing it onto the victim is the equivalent of burning a bag of money.

Granted, legitimate businesses do give out free samples all the time, but the drug "samples" would have to be enough to actually get someone high, and the lady at the supermarket handing out free morsels of some new cookie isn't risking 25 years for doing so. It is theoretically possible that the Aggressive Drug Dealer would be pressing drugs on kids so that when they are addicted they will then have to get the money (whether stealing it from their parents, selling their belongings, etc.) to buy drugs. But again, this would be high risk for minimum gain. It's easier to find people already willing to buy drugs and sell to them at a low-to-moderate price to get them hooked on one particular reliable dealer.

This villain took away the need to actually address the culture-gap between adults and children/teens. "Talking to your kids" by scaring them with this monster was a lot easier than trying to understand the social environment one's child was in, and instilling values that would stand up and that parents agreed with. It's much easier to demonize an evil outsider inexplicably hell-bent on getting you addicted to drugs than to talk about the fact that the people who are actually likely to be encouraging you to try drugs will be your friends and peers.

Modern anti-drug PSAs have been taking a different approach in the last few years, by encouraging children to be "above the influence" in all respects toward peer pressure, not just in regard to doing drugs. If your friends go get high after school, you don't have to go with them, and they'll just agree to see you tomorrow instead. However, this trope can be truth in television, as some of the examples below show. Go figure.

It's worth noting that while this trope tends to take it to the extreme (as in drug dealers aggressively pushing their product on kids and continuously harassing them about it), "the first taste is free" is an older than dirt practice among drug dealers (as well as any legal businesses with an addictive product). Let the customer get hooked on a free sample and they will be back for more at full price (they might even bring friends). Also, in most real life cases, there's no need for an aggressive sales approach, as most people are already sold on the product or at least interested in something related.

A subtrope of drugs are bad.

