A female baddie with a chilly disposition and more than a touch of the dominatrix about her. In darker and edgier versions, this will often mean a love of (other people's) pain and suffering. softer portrayals reduce this to a fervent militarism and devotion to the ideals of whichever totalitarian bunch she works for. Naturally, she'll usually be seen sporting a german or russian accent, along with either a natty military uniform or something black and form-fitting. Whether or not she's vulnerable to good-guy seduction and subversion is highly variable. However, she's invariably attracted to power (which the hero lacks and the big bad has).

Baronesses tend to come in one of two flavours: Sexpot or Rosa Klebb.

The Sexpot is, as you'd expect, young-ish and sexy. Her sadism or (in milder versions) fervent militarism is presented as at least a bit enticing to our (male) hero, who she's likely to be attracted to despite herself. her ice-queen facade is pretty likely to crack a little before the story is over. Her chances of surviving the story are variable to good, depending on how much she lets herself fall for our hero. Most sexpot Baronesses like to whip it good.

The Rosa Klebb (named for the James Bond villain) is middle-aged and very much not attractive, but is more likely to be the big bad herself rather than just working for him. She is immune to the hero's charms, and ominous emphasis is placed upon her utter asexuality, or upon hints that she likes the ladies. Bond-type heroes will be horrified by her, like she had three heads. No matter what, she will be dead as a doornail before the credits roll. No exceptions.

(If, as with the Bond film and novel From Russia with Love, you find the two types of Baronesses in the same plot, expect to find the Klebb character with an unrequited crush on the Sexpot.)

Is this trope laced with sexism? Of course. It hails from mid-20th-century spy and adventure stories like ian fleming's bond novels, which are full of that sort of malarkey. However, in these surroundings, the Baroness will almost undoubtedly also be the coolest female character in the whole story.

The stereotype of the implausibly attractive Communist or Nazi female officer, and her counterpart, the threatening, mannish sadist, is common in campier WWII and Cold War stories. The Russian example has some basis in fact, as the Soviet military did include more female officers than the US military (permitting women to fly in combat in WWII — a couple of whom became aces), but really, that just meant that they had a few more than none.

The Sexpot type of Baroness can sometimes overlap with the vamp, but most examples of the Baroness, sexy or no, have too much self-respect to use sex as a weapon. She's more about hurting men than pleasing them. See also those wacky nazis or dirty communists, for the kind of co-conspirators she usually works with, or dragon lady, for the Eastern variety. Is very often the woman in black.

