The powerhouse of the five-bad band, this is evil's answer to the big guy. A giant mook with personality, the Brute is huge, all muscle, loves to fight and is very good at it. However, while he may first appear to be the hero's equal or even superior in combat, subsequent battles will establish the Brute as being the goliath to the hero's david.

He is usually a bully, incapable of empathy, and, more often than not, also very stupid, though there are exceptions. super strength and nigh-invulnerability are common among powered varieties. Female brutes are rare outside of all-women groups, although not unheard of.

If the dragon isn't the one that gets sent out to antagonize the heroes on a regular basis, it's this guy. He is usually the lowest-ranking member of the inner circle's hierarchy, and as such generally gets little respect from them, though he may exercise authority over the mooks.

He is often the first opponent the heroes face after their successes require that someone more capable be sent to take care of them. He tends to be either blindly loyal or just too thickheaded and incompetent to ever stand a chance of overthrowing the leaders. Despite his role as the primary brute force of the evil army, he is rarely ever as strong as the dragon.

One thing to keep in mind with this character type is that it's the role and rank as opposed to just the personality that defines it. Pete from the walt disney canon is a classic example of the Brute personality type: a big dumb bully that just loves to throw his own weight around. However, he's generally used as a big bad (or, in works like Kingdom Hearts II, the dragon). As such, in most appearances, he is not technically a Brute.

This character type often shows up as part of the five-bad band dynamic (in fact, his presence is often what defines it). He can also show up as a member of the quirky miniboss squad, but (like all the other members) will lose most of his threat level by virtue of his quirkiness.

A Brute whose demeanor becomes implacable will quickly ascend to the status of juggernaut, while the more emotionally volatile risk becoming the berserker. Be wary too, recruiters, of a Brute who pets the dog, lest he prove to be a closet gentle giant and may very well eventually heel-face turn on you.

Considering his aforementioned general role as the mean, stupid, and disrespected meat shield for his team, the Brute tends to be especially susceptible to humble pie and the humiliation conga.

Compare: smash mook.

