The spear counterpart of the black widow, the Bluebeard is a man who appears charming but hides a nefarious secret: he keeps marrying women and then murdering them.

Unlike the black widow, the Bluebeard is rarely motivated by greed, though in real life, historically that was a fairly common motivation. Often, he just does it for kicks or as the epitome of domestic abuse.

Named after the famous fairy tale. Not to be confused with red right hand, although the trope namer's beard fell under that category. Not to be confused with the character from felidae either. Nor with captain colorbeard; Bluebeards usually aren't pirates.

 A  In  Bluebeard appears in the comic book  In the   The  A variation of this tale appears in many versions of "The Robber Bridegroom". In this story, the murderer is a member of a gang of cannibalistic bandits. After inviting the potential fiancé to his house, she is aided by the bandits' servant, an old woman who hides her behind a cask. The would be bride actually witnesses another woman being murdered and devoured, and later, the old woman helps her escape, but insists on coming with her. The bride brings along a ring from the victim of the murder she witnessed, and on the day of the wedding, exposes her fiancé with the evidence. The story ends with the Bridegroom and the other bandits executed.

  The bride in the  There is a version that completely subverts the story with a   There is an Italian version called "Il Naso D'argento" ("The Silver Nose"). The "stranger" has a silver nose, and he is actually the Devil. The Forbidden Room is Hell, where he threw the first two disobedient wives. The wife's little sister, however, manages to save them. The 'silver nose' was typically a prosthetic nose used by men who suffered from severe syphilis, which could cause the nose to fall off. It would have been an early warning that the stranger was not very trustworthy.

 The villain in  The title character of the  Legendary screen cad George Sanders essays a modern-day (as in circa 1960) version of the role in  Played fairly straight in the early-'60s French film  There is Catherine Breillat's film version of the legend.

 The bad Richard Burton film  The title character of the horror movie   Harry Powell from  In the original   Implied to be the case with  Spoofed in the old Italian comedy  A variant occurs in the 1942 grade-Z horror movie  The 1934 movie  Invoked in  Uncle Charlie in Alfred Hitchcock's  In  The Sultan in the framing device of the   Edna St. Vincent Millay's sonnet "Bluebeard".

 There's a short story called "Captain Murderer", in which the titular character keeps marrying women and, a month after the wedding, asks them to make him a pie... and when they're done making the pastry, he kills them and  In  In  Lord Laphroig of Terry Brooks'  In    In  A  Naturally, shows up on   In one episode of  One of the killers whose statue is displayed in  Played for laughs with the character Dr. Mickhead from the series  An episode of    The traditional ballad "False Sir John" is about one wife-killer.

 The seventh track of  Bartok's  Offenbach also wrote an opera on this story

  On a singles cruise, a woman meets a handsome, but older man. She talks to him, and they're hitting it off, when the man mentions he's a widower. "Oh, you are?" she asks. "Yes, I've had three wives, and they all died." "Oh, my god, what happened?" "Well, the first one... she ate poisoned mushrooms." "Really?" "Yes, and the second one... really tragic, she also ate poisoned mushrooms." "My goodness! What about the third one?" "Well, she was strangled to death." "Strangled! What happened?" "She wouldn't eat the mushrooms."

 A limerick by   Outside of  Nikolai Belinski, the Russian soldier in  Zoltan Carnovasch from the first  The freeware Doom-engine game Judith, in which a series of flashbacks of a wife finding a secret room in her husband's castle with a torture victim inside and the subsequent mercy-killing of the victim leads to the wife encountering a particularly haunting version of this trope.

 Dupin and the  A popular strategy in     In  In  "Bluebeard" is the  Some believe that the fairy tale has its origins in   Henry VIII, who had  Drew Peterson, a former cop from Illinois who has been married four times — to increasingly younger women, to the point that his 4th wife, whom he began dating when she was  Robert Weeks. In 1968, his wife Patricia disappeared after a dinner date in which they were to hash out the terms of their divorce. Her car was later found abandoned at a local shopping mall. In 1980, his girlfriend Cynthia Jabour disappeared after a dinner date in which she intended to break off the relationship. Her car was found abandoned in a casino parking lot. Three guesses what happened to his next girlfriend, Carol Ann Riley. In April 1988, Weeks was convicted of murdering Patricia and Cynthia, even though no trace of them, Carol Ann, or his  John David Smith's first and second wives disappeared without a trace. Each had complained that he was abusive and controlling and each was planning to file for divorce. While his first wife's remains were eventually found and he was convicted of her murder, his second wife's whereabouts are still unknown.

 So called 