The super trope of jerk jock, alpha bitch, and other bully characters. This is the schoolyard bully all grown up in his heyday. The guy who gave you wedgies and tied you to a flag-pole. The girl who humiliated you in front of the entire school and broke your self-confidence on your first day in. In western animation, it is required by law for the bully to refer to his victims by last name only, because, well... you're not exactly their friend.

A bully is simply defined on wiktionary as "A person who is cruel to others, especially those who are weaker or have less power." This sums this character up in a nutshell. They will target anyone who is less popular than they are, those who are unable to fight back, or anyone who won't fight back. Comes in different flavours as listed below.

Because adults are useless, frequently students have to take matters into their own hands to deal with these characters, leading to a bully hunter. Alternatively, the bully may not get his comeuppance from his victims or their protectors, instead falling foul to a bigger villain and having to be rescued by the very people he used to torment. Can lead to a reformed bully, if the bully is willing to admit to it. Otherwise the status quo returns to normal despite past events.particularly thick bullies will often try picking on the (currently) pacifist superpowered or extremely strong kid who simply isn't very sociable. This is called bullying a dragon, and it always ends badly, unless the dragon ends up saving the bullies and thus shutting the bully right up. this doesn't always happen.

It should be noted that a lot of social stereotypes that are not necessarily true in real life are commonly associated with fictional bullies: the bully, as a stock evildoer, is typically a dirty coward in the face of real danger, always dumb, and comes from an unhappy and problem ridden family background. (Real life will tell you that often the opposite of these is true.) Also, in real life, school bullying is not a rite of passage. Lastly, while many movies and television shows portray bullies as being enormous in size and physical strength (probably so that we feel more sympathy for their victims), bullies in real life come in all shapes and sizes. So the giant football player who sits to your left in homeroom probably isn't much more likely to be a bully than the scrawny nerd that sits to your right.

                               