A variation on the virus with elements of the dark side, the Corruption is a force of chaos that gives some of its victims a superpowered evil side before (or while) it mutates them into mindless monsters. The body horror transformation progresses gradually, and the final result tends to be a hideous, slithering creature which looks like the spawn of an eldritch abomination, an enemy to all living things capable of inflicting the Corruption on any creature falling into its tentacled clutches.

In the standard plotline, it will usually infect the hero at some point. While seeking to cure himself, the infected hero must struggle with malign influence and limit use of the evil powers granted by the Corruption, since using them tends to corrupt him further.

This often works by an interesting rule: mooks and red shirts tend to be turned into raving, mindless beasts/monsters. If the hero or the villain catches it, they get cursed with awesome superpowers. heroic willpower is probably the reason for this temporary(?) emotional stabilization. Named villains and extras will usually give in to it much more quickly for the powers, and quickly betray humanity because of it. Expect them to get drunk on the dark side and suffer a super power meltdown because of it. Remember, evil is not a toy.

Nastier versions require a mercy kill. They may, in dying as yourself, recover just a few moments, but only if mortally wounded. Contrast with power degeneration, where the cause of eventual death is overuse of superpowers, or simply having them.

In video games, a nonstandard game over may occur when the player is corrupted too much. You can tell you're getting too close to the edge if the PC gets tainted veins and undeathly pallor.

Compare with with great power comes great insanity and evil makes you ugly. Contrast the corrupter, who also does their best to turn other characters evil, but is also a character in their own right, rather than an impersonal force. Usually represented visually by gaining volcanic veins, a red right hand, and a game face or even a full on slow transformation.

Due to the body horror involved, it's a potent source of nightmare fuel.

Not to be confused with the third game in the metroid prime trilogy (even though it uses this trope as a critical story element).

