Throughout history, there have been a few individuals who have had a marked personal effect on the course of events around them. Some did this through political or sometimes aesthetic means, but most of those who were single-handedly instrumental in deciding the path of history have been military leaders. It seems that certain men combine a rare set of natural traits - leadership ability, tactical thinking, staggering ambition, copious ego, and a large dose of suicidal bravery, all combined with a visionary drive to rule the world and the imagination to see it done - to create a whole individual who is patently capable of turning even a ragtag band of woefully underfed and poorly equipped vagabonds into a fighting force that is not only formidable but easily capable of crushing any opposition that stands before it.

A true Conqueror strives to claim the whole of the known world through military, and often succeeds. (Note that he often doesn't put much thought into running it once he's taken it; he just wants the bragging rights). This is in contrast to those characters who rise to universal power through other means (such as subverting the democratic process or literally being appointed dictator by a legislative body).

The easiest way to recognize this character is by what he manages to accomplish. If he doesn't take over two or three countries (at least) in the course of the story, he's not The Conqueror.

Most Conquerors are by nature magnificent bastards. Some even dip into omnicidal maniac territory. They are also their own trope namers. Quite often, these characters appear in the backstory of a setting, and all that is left of their conquests is a vestigial empire.

conqueror from the future is a sub-trope of this when the Conqueror in question has, in fact, actually managed to conquer something. galactic conqueror and young conqueror are specific variants. multiversal conqueror is this trope taken to its logical extreme.

These fellows often get "The Conqueror" as a sobriquet—frequently one of many.

 Lelouch of     General Tacticus, from whose name the the word "tactics" is derived, was a famous Morporkian leader of the  Artur "Hawkwing" Paendrag of  The  Part of the irony in Percy Bysshe Shelley's  Aegon the First, also called The Conqueror, in  Kieron in Steven Brust's   In the  In the distant backstory of  In the  Rider in   In the  In the official setting for  Two major examples from the lore of  In  Lord Median the Conqueror from  Walhart of  The deceased emperor  In         King William I of England (better known as William the Conqueror), first battled to secure his claim on Normandy, then invaded England in 1066. While he really only conquered one small island, the impact of that one small conquest on world history cannot possibly be overstated.

 Charlemagne, King of the Franks and later the original Holy Roman Emperor.

 During his reign (1479 - 1425 BC), Pharaoh Thutmose III conquered Northern Africa and the Middle East from Niy in north Syria to the fourth waterfall of the Nile in Nubia, the largest extent ever covered by the Egyptian empire.

   Isabella of Castile and Ferdinand of Aragon united Spain under their joint banners and drove the Muslims out of Western Europe. And then they subsidized an ocean voyage by some guy named  Suleiman the Magnificent: Under his rule, the Ottoman's controlled everything from Algeria to Iran and from Ethiopia to Hungary. In a bit of a departure from some of the other Conquerors here, Suleiman was also known for the great improvements he made to the administrative system of his country. While in the West he was Suleiman the Magnificent, in the East he was known as Suleiman the Lawgiver.

  Timur-I-Lenk (aka Tamerlane), who claimed descent from  Harald Fairhair: First king of Norway.

 Zahir-ud-din Muhammad Babur, descended from Tamerlane on his father's side, and Genghis Khan on his mother's side, followed in both of their footsteps. Hailing from modern Uzbekistan, he lost his kingdom after a series of setbacks, only to assemble enough followers to invade India. Originally planning only to reclaim some of Tamerlane's old territories, Babur ended up overrunning almost every state on the subcontinent, setting up the Islamic Mughal Empire, which would outlast him by several hundred years.

 The first conqueror we have records for was Sargon of Akkad, aka Sargon the Great, a Semitic ruler (and son of a royal gardener) who, after launching a coup d'etat in his home city-state of Akkad, overran every Semitic and Sumerian city-state in Iraq, creating the Akkadian Empire. Akkadia would outlast Sargon by one hundred fifty years, and he has gone down history as the man who 