The downside of any hereditary monarchy is that every so often the throne is inherited by someone completely out of his gourd. Maybe it's the fault of that lead-lined plumbing, or those mercury-laced medicinal elixirs or maybe it's genetic (in which case you're in some deep trouble). Whatever the cause, the sovereign is still given the full power and support of the state despite obvious insanity, with inevitably disastrous consequences.

The Caligula will be wildly irrational, violently moody, extremely debauched, very intolerant of being told anything he doesn't want to hear, and probably afflicted with a god complex. He may be a sexual deviant, or he might take pleasure in the pain and suffering he causes. He may indulge in renaming cities or even the entire country after himself. Whatever form his madness takes, one thing is certain: to do anything the Caligula finds displeasing is to inevitably be dragged off to a grisly death or worse. Of course, this could also happen to those who have not done anything at all. And while all of this is going on, the land over which the Caligula rules is rapidly going down the drain due to his neglect. Here in particular, he has a decided advantage over most other crackpots when it comes to messing things up: he can start wars. Be it for the perceived personal glory or his obsession with perceived enemies, the Caligula's country will probably be in a constant state of war.

Due to their continuing close proximity to the Caligula, members of the Court (decadent or otherwise) will be the primary targets of his fits of rage. Nobody within his reach is safe from him, whether they be nobles, servants, bureaucrats, foreign ambassadors, or even members of his own family. The Caligula is very definitely a bad boss. With any luck, thanks to the starscream/reliable traitor/la résistance, a conspiracy will eventually develop to remove the crazy sovereign from his post... permanently.

This is not limited to sovereign heads of state. The Caligula can be anyone wielding great power within an organization while being completely nuts. Modern psychology has shown that the corporate business structure, if emphasizing financial profit to the detriment of anything else, can be especially prone to the appearances of individuals displaying at least a majority if not all of The Caligula's traits (so long as the person seeking profits is a psychopath at least, which is what the book seems to be saying.)

named for what is probably history's best known whack-job, roman emperor Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus, better known as caligula (Little Boots, his childhood nickname), a reference to the child-sized "caliga" warrior's sandals he wore as a small child when his father took him to watch a war; remembered for talking to statues, locking granaries, declaring war on Poseidon (and "winning", then commanding his soldiers to collect seashells as war-prizes), making his horse a consul, and boning his sisters. The veracity of some of these claims is in question, but the reputation persists. The caligula page has all the details.

In terms of the ranks of authority tropes, the tropes that are equal are the good chancellor, evil chancellor, standard royal court and deadly decadent court. The next step down is the brigadier. The next steps up are the evil prince, prince charming, prince charmless, sheltered aristocrat, warrior prince, the wise prince, and all princess tropes.

Compare:   Contrast:  