aristocrats are evil. ambition is evil too. So what could be worse than ambitious royalty?

Evil Prince Bob knows he's the stuff of which great kings are made. Unfortunately, while he is in line for the throne, there are a lot of lesser men in front of him. If only Prince Bob could...persuade them to get out of the way, then nothing would stand between him and the glorious reign he knows he is destined to have.

Usually the Evil Prince is not high in the line of succession, and his scheming arises from the fact that he won't inherit under current circumstances. But sometimes he is the eldest son and heir, and his only reason for giving his father a push into immortality is that he's too impatient to wait.

A common subtrope is to have the Evil Prince as the younger brother to the king, who tends to be his polar opposite. This usually means the king is too good-hearted to see his brother's true nature, with bad results for the children of the king once he is gone (Evil Princes tend to make evil uncles).

For some reason there are very few Evil Princesses. One explanation is that, perhaps because of the very strong influence of fairy tale (and disney) heroines, princesses are good characters (though queens may be evil). Another explanation is that royal daughters are usually not in the line of succession and have nothing to gain by disposing of their rivals. The rare princess who does ascend to the throne in this way will invariably be an utter tyrant as a queen.

This trope is rooted in an underlying belief that certain persons are or are not meant to rule, particularly when the monarch is understood to hold the throne by the will of some higher power. King Bob, by circumventing the rightful sequence of succession, is an illegitimate ruler — he wasn't meant to have the throne — and thus he and his rule will be bad. The irony is that legitimate rulers are not automatically good: the firstborn son may be a royal brat; the King who believes he is descended from the gods may become a tyrant. On the other hand, the law of succession is a better system for determining the ruler than combat and/or murder — and a man who would literally kill for the throne is unlikely to rule with kindness.

This is at least older than print, stretching back to mordred and seen as recently as Stardust.

See also aristocrats are evil, the baroness, evil uncle, and evil chancellor. If an Evil Prince already has the throne and is trying to keep the rightful heirs off of it, see regent for life. Regardless of how thorough they are in killing off rivals, there's usually a hidden backup prince with better credentials.

Contrast with sheltered aristocrat, the wise prince and knight in shining armor.

In terms of the ranks of authority tropes, the tropes that are equal are prince charming, prince charmless, warrior prince, the wise prince, and all princess tropes. The next steps down are the good chancellor, evil chancellor, standard royal court and deadly decadent court. The next steps up are the caligula, the good king, god save us from the queen!, the high queen, she is the king, and the woman wearing the queenly mask.

