The ruler of an Empire, usually but not always the empire. Historically, Emperors outranked Kings, so when you need an authority figure to convey the highest possible power and rank, you can't get any higher than making them The Emperor (unless you go to the pope, or into the speculative realms of celestial paragons and archangels, demon lords and archdevils, and galactic conqueror and at the most accepted highest tier, god emperor). The next steps down are god save us from the queen!, the woman wearing the queenly mask, the high queen, she is the king, the good king and president evil.

If a ruler is known as The Emperor, it's almost a sure sign that he's an evil overlord. Kings, Lords, and Presidents are as likely to be good as they are to be bad, but somehow The Emperor is almost always the story's heavy. This is probably for the same reasons as good republic, evil empire.

The Emperor is often distinct from the evil overlord in that he's much more likely to be the ruler of the world, or at least the ruler of the largest and most influential country in it, instead of simply being a Sauron/Kim Jong-Il president evil cackling it up over in Latveria/mordorland. Besides being evil, you can often expect The Emperor to be the big bad, especially if you're in a Fantasy setting. They will frequently invoke authority equals asskicking, which can often make them the most dangerous man on the planet.

In Western media, characters known as The Emperor will almost inevitably be evil overlord big bads. Only in historic plotlines involving the leaders of the real-life Roman Empire will they get any sympathetic depiction at all, and even then they're usually portrayed unflatteringly. In contrast, in China and Japan Emperors actually served as legitimate rulers for most of recorded history, and thus Eastern media (particularly Chinese wuxia films, but also occasionally anime) do have the occasional non-evil Emperor. However, if the Emperor is legitimate and non-malevolent, his role in the plot is usually purely as a background character; plot-significant Emperors usually serve in the role of big bad.

For some reason Emperors have a tendency to be disc one final bosses. It is very common for a villainous version to be hyped up initially, before being superseded by the dragon either after their defeat by the heroes or after betrayal from in their organization. When used like this it's often for escalation purposes, the initial Emperor is often fairly normal within the setting besides his political power and (sometimes) exceptional skills, where as their successor often has far more intimidating powers at their command.

The Emperor might be: The  The  The  The This trope isn't necessarily related to god emperor, but it may be.

See also just the first citizen. do not confuse with the black metal band emperor.

Of course, just because the trope is titled "The Emperor" doesn't preclude the existence of actual Empresses, as some of the examples in both fiction and real life illustrate. An Empress is likely to be depicted more sympathetically than an Emperor, often incorporating elements of the woman wearing the queenly mask (if mature) or the less-frivolous Princess tropes (if youthful).

