While it's not uncommon for some people skilled in a trade to pass it on to their children, sometimes the only thing a parent is skilled at that he can teach to his kids is murder, cold-blooded torture, and any other heartless criminal deeds you can think of. This will usually result in raising an evil clan, and when the kids are old enough, the family collectively and regularly adds to a rising body count and a growing criminal file.

This is basically siblings in crime but with the parents (and maybe a few other extended relatives) having a hand in the villainy, as well.

Usually, The Family That Slays Together consists of at least one parent (if it is only one parent, it's usually the father), and at least two children of blood relation to the parent. If a mother and father are both present in the story, it's possible for the family to have only one child join them on crime sprees. Aunts, uncles, grandparents, or cousins may be among the ranks as well from time to time, especially when family inbreeding is suggested.

One common variation involves an outlaw couple kidnapping a child or a group of children for the duo to raise as they would their own kids (typically, this either results in stockholm syndrome, which is rare, to betraying or outright killing their own kidnappers, which would be more common).

Very often, this trope might overlap with cannibal clan, especially in the horror genre. Sometimes, they are also professional killers.

Compare: overlord jr.. / daddy's little villain where a single descendant of a big bad seeks to follow in his footsteps. in the blood is related if the kids pick up on their parents' evil habits without having been directly exposed to any of their criminal behaviors and/or it's a persistent trend throughout the generations. May also be a badass family, though your mileage may vary, depending on how "badass" you think violent crime and other felonies are.

Contrast mama didn't raise no criminal.

Compare and contrast: All forms of the generic ethnic crime gang, particularly the mafia and the irish mob.

