A sub-trope of evil overlord, as well as the caligula. The militaristic leader of a fictional third world state or nation (usually african, south american, eastern european or middle eastern). Almost invariably rules a people's republic of tyranny. Almost always male.

His reign tends to be characterised by human rights abuse, political repression, ethnic persecution, judicial killings, extrajudicial killings, nepotism, and corruption. His political viewpoints (if he even has any) veer towards communism, fascism, or some combination of the worst aspects of both. Of course, none of this will stop him from proclaiming himself "the people's liberator" or otherwise billing himself as a great hero. He may have attended a prestigious ivy league or oxbridge university in his youth, where he majored in western hypocrisy. He is often the target of American assassination attempts and rebel groups, who may or may not be figments of his own paranoia. A common feature is to have a guerrilla movement training to overthrow them. Once this happens, the general goes into hiding to train his own revolutionaries to overthrow the government, which will be just as corrupt as the old one (as seen in ). A common twist is to make him a straw hypocrite: he doesn't really care for his stated ideology, but uses it to cement his hold on power.

Tends to be based on one or more real-life dictators, most commonly chiang kai-shek, augusto pinochet, benito mussolini, hideki tojo, francisco franco, rafael trujillo, joseph stalin, fidel castro, mao zedong, idi amin, muammar gaddafi and saddam hussein. This is often used to make an anvilicious point about said real-life dictator's policies. surprisingly, adolf hitler is rarely parodied in this manner, perhaps because the man himself is enough of an acceptable target (although one of his henchmen, Hermann Goering, did famously dress this way).

Usually dressed in fancy military garb, with a chest of medals and topped with a commissar cap. Common traits include facial hair of some sort, cigar smoking, a hatred of democracy, a long list of self-bestowed titles, and naming cities and monuments after himself. Because Generalissimos often have little political credibility but self-delusions of grandeur, they are often also called tin pot dictators.

   In      In  In      Mentioned by  "Mad Dog" Branzillo of    Parodied in an episode of  In   You can play as one of these in    General Viper in  In  Queen-for-Life Deidranna in  In the original  Colonel Allende in  General Raul Grasiento, who appears in  In the original   Roger briefly impersonates one of these in   After the fiasco of the 2000 Presidential election, 