The ku klux klan has appeared a lot in fiction, especially in the deep south. As one of the most well-known hate groups in history, and with their distinctive white robes and pointed hoods, they are commonly found as politically incorrect villains. They almost always will have drawling accents, be hot-tempered, drop plenty of cluster f bombs and - ironically - be as dumb as bricks (ironic because its earliest members had been classically educated, and "Ku Klux" itself was inspired by the ancient greek word for "circle").

Related tropes are those wacky nazis, white gangbangers, and rebels with repeaters.

Not to be confused with the clan.

 Klansmen show up in  In the  The Arctic Nation in the  Real American from      The Klan appears in  Featured prominently in  In  In  In the Samuel L. Jackson remake of   The raunchy high school boys from the second  In  The Ku Klux Klan plays a pretty big role in  Humorously portrayed in the Richard Pryor comedy  Fletch in the movie  In  In   The  A minor enlisted character in    The father of one of the protagonists in  They are featured in  Langston Hughes' brief and disquieting poem "Ku Klux" is a first person account of being abducted by a group of Klansmen who demand to know "Do you believe in the Great White Race?"

  An episode of the  On    There's an episode of  The Klan used to be frequent guests on daytime talk shows, especially  An episode of  On  A hilarious example in the   The  In a two-part episode of    Ku Klux Klan #1, #2 and #3 of  Fishman, Flama Roja and El Legionario also formed their very own Ku Klux Klan. "The Klan" seems oddly ( Rockin Rebel took up a klan gimmick in   The Humanis Policlub in  Psychotic racist supervillain White Knight in  In Clare Boothe's play  In the climax of "The Foreigner", by Larry Shue, the Klan attacks Betty's lodge, led by the obviously evil Owen Musser. "This here's the Klan, y'all! Y'all don't fool with the Klan!" Later on, it is revealed  The Fraternal Order of the Raven in  In  Appear several times in  The KKK is often mocked in  