black suit. white shirt. black tie. sinister shades. Ominous and overbearing manner. speaking in code. no indication of emotions or a personality. Ostensibly some kind of covert operative, but very conspicuous. They are simultaneously imposing and nondescript, which fits their mission perfectly.

The Man In Black is the generic intimidating agent. If he has a name, expect it to be an obvious pseudonym, one of the most common Anglo-Saxon names, such as "mr. smith", "mr. jones", "mr. brown", etc., or else he'll be mister strangenoun. He is there to loom over you and make you feel afraid, regardless of whether he's sent by the government, the mafia, a corrupt corporate executive, or aliens from outer space. He's almost never there to help you.

Generally, they are in the business of keeping secrets. laser-guided amnesia is a pretty common tool in their arsenal, especially in more idealistic versions, wiping out a memory you're probably better off without so you can go back to a normal life. More cynical portrayals just bully you into keeping your mouth shut. or just make you disappear. Less often, they'll make an offer you can't refuse: join or forget. or die.conspiracy theorists live in fear of the Men In Black. they know too much.

Despite being the symbolic presence of The Oppression Of the man, the men in black have the mystique of being badass and cool, so heroes can be associated with them. In those cases they are merely protecting panicky muggles by doing what's ultimately best. Watch out for conspiracy redemption if they go too far, though.

The Men In Black tend to have access to vast material resources through their inclusion in budgets that never appear on the public books. They often have new super-secret weapons and devices. If the men in black are hunting a character, he should look over his shoulder for the van in black and scan the skies for the black helicopters. Finally, the men in black frequently do not officially exist, so good luck finding out anything about them.

The term comes from fringe UFO research, where the Men In Black have become the primary boogeymen. The earliest citation comes from 1953: UFO researcher Albert Bender, who published a small newsletter called "Space Review", explained a missed issue (which he had promised would blow the lid off the secrecy about UFOs) by claiming that "three men wearing dark suits" had approached him and ordered him "emphatically" to stop publishing material about flying saucers. Years later, he would admit that he just didn't have the promised material and made up the story to explain why, but not before milking the story with a 1963 book called Flying Saucers and the Three Men In Black, and spawning an entire mythology.

or maybe that's what they told him to say...Usually male; distaff counterparts are somewhat uncommon.

May employ (or have a division that is) a creature hunter organization to keep Muggles from discovering monsters from the masquerade. Compare to the media franchise named after and based upon this. Not to be confused with any other man in black or black shirt.

now if you can look into this device for a moment...

(*zap!*)

you never saw this page. it doesn't exist.