After infiltrating the fortress of evil, fighting off hordes of mooks, successfully navigating the death course and laying the almighty smackdown on the dragon, you finally reach the evil sorcerer's inner sanctum. You charge in, ready to face the man behind the man and kick some ass...

Wait a second, since when was Baron Von Ruthless a bedridden feeble old man with leukemia? And why does he have a dry ice machine?Sometimes the big bad is disappointingly small. Sometimes the ultimate evil is far less ultimate than you were led to believe. Sometimes the man behind the man is just the The Man Behind The Curtain: a villain who falls depressingly short of their own hype. More deserving of a slap across the face than a pummeling (but even that might kill them), they are not even a remotely credible threat to the heroes. You want to hate them, but all you can muster up is pity.

If this happens in a serious story, expect the audience to be ticked when they find out the long-awaited big fight is going to be really one-sided, if it happens at all. Of course, really crafty Men Behind The Curtain make sure that the hero is significantly weakened by the time they get to him, either through exhaustion from fighting everyone before him or doing something very sneaky and underhanded to him before the fight begins. Then again, there may well be truth in television justification for this; after all, a commander without an army is effectively useless. Of course, tropes are not bad; in a cynical-realistic show with anyone can die and reality ensues in full force, it would be jarring if the enemy is thoroughly outmatched but still poses a threat in person.

anticlimax boss is a video game-specific subtrope. For the inverse of this trope, see fluffy the terrible. Contrast with villain decay and authority equals asskicking. May use the fake special attack. Has surprisingly little to do with curtain camouflage or the dramatic curtain toss, though some examples may have those as well.

By this trope's very nature, all examples will be SPOILERS. You have been warned.