This is the group that appears, usually early in the plot, when the hidden agenda villain or the powers that be gather their peers or most trusted servants and talk about what's going on. don't expect anyone to be clearly lit, though.

A magic ball or screen on the wall showing the hero's every move is a required accessory.

Keep in mind that, plotwise, they should know most of the details, including spoilers that should be kept from the audience or details the writers themselves haven't decided on. This often is the setup for a gambit roulette. Anything that happens, even unlikely combinations of luck and choices that seem to destroy the Council's plans, are "just as planned".

The result is a lot of vague and pretentious doubletalk about how they know everything that's happening but don't actually mention what any of those things are, not even to themselves. Expect comments like "everything is going according to plan." and "great darkness is coming. We will see if the hero can handle it." Except for what little tidbits the writer feels obliged to reveal, as little detail as possible is given. Also, as the hero (and by extension, the audience) finds out more of "The Plan", The Omniscient Council Of Vagueness will have no problem discussing those parts directly, even when it was apparently taboo previously. (Though, of course, people tend not to talk in detail about things they all already know. Makes wiretapping a frustrating business.)

If action is demanded, the leader will insist, "we wait", "All pieces are not yet in position in the divine chessboard", or "let him grow stronger first, content in believing that his destiny is his own!" (evil laugh).

Do note that these councils, while usually evil, don't need to be by definition. If they're just pretending to be good, or only the head(s) of the organization are evil, then the organization may undergo a conspiracy redemption.

It could be that they simply believe you have no chance to survive, and so permit you to take your time. Expect them to be secretly displeased as the Hero approaches closer and closer to their permanent hideout. He won't ever find them: the Council is always located someplace you'd never think to look. The Council also has a penchant for the the plan and its subtropes.

May be a cosmopolitan council and can serve as a mysterious backer. See also vagueness is coming, you know the one, he who must not be seen.

See also the illuminati, one of the most famous names for an Omniscient Council Of Vagueness. For the corporate version of the trope, see nebulous evil organisation. Often overlaps with the secret circle of secrets. Compare sinister silhouettes. Contrast not-so-omniscient council of bickering. Subtrope of mysterious stranger.

