The Primadonna is the alpha bitch of show business. Her talent and beauty are matched only by her ego, and she is prone to making infuriating demands of her producers (like demanding an unlimited wardrobe), and God help the poor sap in a position of servitude to her. As a performer, she will not tolerate seeing someone else play her leading part, especially an inexperienced youngster, never considering she might be way out of her element (perhaps because she's too old for the part), or that her meddling could be actively destroying the show. Often she'll be considerably meaner backstage than any of her famous roles. Expect her to put on a sweet face for interviews and publicity appearances, but rumours of her real personality will always abound.

The Primadonna is etymologically and stereotypically female, but men are not exempt but being called one. This is because the word's meaning has become less specific through overuse in real life. It's Italian for "first lady" and originally simply meant the leading female singer in an opera company. Evidently enough of them embodied the traits in the preceding paragraph that it came to be used to refer to any individual who's talented in their field but insufferably egotistical. "Diva" has gained a similarly negative connotation over time, to the point that the two terms have become synonymous, though "diva" refers primarily to singers ("divalike" covering men and non-singing performers), while "primadonna" has grown to be more inclusive.

A sister trope to it's all about me.

Compare taking advantage of generosity. See also prima donna director, who acts much the same.

 Bianca Castafiore from the  Lina Lamont in  Sharpay Evans from the  Samantha James in  Margo Channing in  Norma Desmond in  The plot of  Parodied with Helen Sinclair in   Carlotta from  Eventually, Veda in  Pornstar 'Trixie Vixen' (she had it legally changed) from  Vanilla Hoare in the "Scott of the  Rachel Berry in  Miss Piggy of  Bill McNeil in  Jenna and Tracy on   Parodied in  Sheridan Whiteside from  Frieda Hatzfeld from  Gussie in the musical  The title character in Alban Berg's opera  Desiree Armfeldt in  Dorothy Brock in   Sumire of  Eden Starling in   Dee in 