

The Paranoiac is the person who is paranoid all the time, as a major aspect of their personality. They may or may not suffer from specific paranoid delusions or believe crackpot conspiracy theories (and such theorists may or may not be paranoiacs themselves; most, it should be said, do not qualify, though many of course do), but they have a natural inclination to mistrust the people around them and the situations they find themselves in.

This trope is the Paranoid Personality Disorder as demonstrated in the media. In both fiction and real life, it is often of major importance to areas of study such as crime, cults, terrorism, dictatorships, and mass murder.

To qualify, the character or characters must meet at least three of the following criteria:

Other symptoms include a hair-trigger temper; dirty cowardice as well as bravado and boastful behaviour; green-eyed monster behaviour and the assumption that others are envious or jealous of them (rather than the other way round); black and white insanity and a tendency to (a)moral absolutes; attempts at (or claims of) achieving self-reliance, independence, and self-sufficiency; and a poor sense of humor, one that is either utterly lacking or outright cruel, reflecting the fact that paranoiacs are typically guarded and serious. They also have a tendency to believe might makes right, at least in regard to themselves and their own actions, and are likely to believe violence is the only option more than most. Many seek power, to secure their boundaries and feed their fragile egos, almost inevitably abusing it when they ever find it. Paranoia is also a root cause of all forms of prejudice and bigotry.

Paranoid Personality Disorder is highly co-morbid with several other disorders, including narcissism, sociopathy, and sadism; many sociopaths are basically aggressive paranoiacs, sharing a bleak view of the world and basic mistrust of others, but deciding that attack is the best form of defensive. Sadists are very often paranoiacs who have learnt to take perverse satisfaction in controlling or avenging themselves on others (as opposed to viewing it as necessarily evil, why did you make me hit you?, or other such jerk justifications); indeed, since sadism is not currently an official psychological diagnosis (for reasons more of politics and research rather than the idea that it doesn't actually exist), many sadists are diagnosed as paranoiacs instead as an alternative (when they aren't diagnosed as the sociopath).

Paranoiacs are attracted to extremism the way flies are to lights, and many end up becoming the fundamentalist (either religious or otherwise), if only because it often provides them with an enemy or scapegoat to blame for their problems and focus their stress and rage upon. Many acts of terrorism are basically glorified attempts to show that the paranoiacs aren't people to be pushed around, as they tend to think that fear and violence are the pathway to respect. Consequently, some paranoiacs become cult leaders, and many cult leaders become paranoiacs as they become guarded against disloyalty or anything that might expose them as a fraud or otherwise pry people from under their control.

Compare / contrast properly paranoid, misanthrope supreme.

 Gaara from  Mewtwo from      Michael Corleone from  Several characters in  Sauron and Morgoth from the  Voldemort from  Grand Inquisitor Zhaspahr Clyntahn of  In   The Daleks from   Many, many people in  The second series of  Dale Gribble from  Dan from 