Every youth subculture gets its moment to be the new rock & roll — greasers, mods, hippies, thugs, goths; hell, Mystery Science Theater 3000 proves the beatniks got a good round of it. And when the late '70s and early '80s came around, the punks got it with both barrels. The subculture relied on brilliant and strange hairstyles, a growing feeling of societal discontent, and stripped-down, often angry music. It was like a license to sow moral panic.

But where the general societal backlash to a subculture tends to abate over time, there's still the idea that punk is violent and nihilistic. Maybe it's the pervasive nature of the imagery. Maybe it was the hardcore seeding of memetics that painted punks as people who wanted to tear the system down and piss on the ashes. Or maybe it was because sid vicious fucked it all up for everyone else.

Hence, the Quincy Punk. The Quincy Punk looks for all the world like a stereotypical punk — mohawk in all the colors of the Kool-Aid rainbow, studded leather jacket, and very uncomfortable piercings. The music he listens to is distorted and raw, like hardcore on PCP, and often doesn't much resemble actual punk rock. He's an anarchist, but it's more about setting fire to a police station than any sort of rational opinion on kropotkin's Mutual Aid. Oh. And he hates you. The Quincy Punk is most often used as a stock mugger, thug, or street gang member for superheroes or other urban vigilantes to kick the crap out of, allowing for an intimidating image in an urban setting while avoiding the unfortunate implications of batman beating the crap out of more racially-oriented street criminals.

For actual information on Punk rock, see punk or the punk rock page. Nothing to do with President john quincy adams, unless some tell-all biography reveals his youthful radicalism. There's now a book out that's a field guide to these sorts of portrayals, paired with the rare cases where the creators actually knew what the hell they were doing.Not to be confused with the clan of Quincies from Bleach. Or one of the first suburbs southies escaped to.

