named after vidkun quisling, who assisted the Nazis in their conquest and rule of Norway during world war ii. The poster boy of les collaborateurs, he appears whenever one country or culture is being conquered, occupied, or colonized by another. He does everything possible to curry favor with the new rulers. He speaks their language more often than his own, apes their customs and refers to his hometown as New Invaderia instead of Freedomville. He might justify this on the grounds that by securing a position of power and influence he can ensure the occupation is as painless and least oppressive as possible. Sometimes, he will have been a friend of the heroes before the invasion, but often he will be someone who had always given our heroes a hard time, and he will try to make them "see reason" and stop their futile attempts to restore the old regime. Frequently has elements of the obstructive bureaucrat or the dragon. When conversing with the conquering leaders he will probably be opinion flipflop personified.

Despite all this, the Quisling is never seen as an equal by the conquerors, but at best as a useful tool to keep the natives in line. At worst, they hold him in almost as much contempt as his own people. Either way, they won't hesitate to dispose of him once he's outlived his usefulness. If the invaders value honor, expect him to eventually get killed because he's a betrayer to his cause: at least the other invaded have a sense of pride and honor!

What distinguishes the Quisling from other collaborateurs is authority. A Quisling will never be considered an equal by the conquerors, but he will have a position of power that will be used to influence the conquered people. He will often be the local "poster boy" for submission to the conquerors. If a character has a minor job within the conquerors' hierarchy or simply chooses to accept the conquerors' rule rather than resist, then they are collaborateurs but are not Quislings.

His storyline tends to end in one of a handful of ways:

 The first against the wall when the revolution comes. Disposing of or disgracing him is one of the first major victories for  As the rebellion grows and its victory draws near, he opportunistically switches or is coerced to switch sides. He's disgraced and held in even more contempt, but is just useful enough to save his neck.

 He finally does a  He was actually the  The first against the wall when the revolution  The revolution fails or is temporarily crushed, and he's killed, "purged" or otherwise done away with, anyway, because the higher-ups don't trust a former member of the conquered nation ( If The Quisling is a  The Quisling will Compare to professional buttkisser. Contrast with head-in-the-sand management, who is not actually in the employ of the villain, but ends up helping him anyway through inaction or counterproductive actions.

