the social darwinist is someone who believes that the Darwinist theory of evolution — i.e. "survival of the fittest" to oversimplify it — applies literally to people, and sometimes entire societies or nations. To the Social Darwinist, all life is a struggle for survival in which the strongest naturally prosper at the expense of the weak — and it is right, and natural that they should do so, because that's just the way things are, and/or natural law is above good and evil (often, they may not consider that their chances for survival may have started higher than others due to reasons such as inherited wealth or social prestige). They typically state that we have become complacent and stupid, and want to remove weakness and stupidity from society. It may seem to some that because humans aren't currently having wars/disaster and humans aren't endangered as a species that evolution in humans has ceased altogether.

If they do talk about evolution, they are very likely to talk about evolutionary levels and goal-oriented evolution rather than Darwin's actual theory.

Fictional Social Darwinists generally come in five major flavors:

 The first type believes in Social Darwinism, which misinterprets the idea of evolution and natural selection and holds that people who rise to the top in  The second type is a racist or  The third type is the  The fourth type is simply  The fifth type believe that competition, suffering and struggle makes the individual, and possibly a society (as a whole), superior. They tend to believe in If the Social Darwinist doesn't suffer a karmic death, the heroes "disprove" his might-makes-right philosophy by demonstrating the the power of friendship: either by ganging up and beating the crap out of him and his cronies, or by the leader of the group (often the all-loving hero) doing it himself while repeatedly driving home that he's fighting for his friends. A particularly profound way this to happen is to have the character beaten by a character who is either a visible minority the Social Darwinist considers inferior or has a glaring physical or mental handicaps.

More sympathetic Social Darwinists (i.e. if they aren't hypocrites) will often begin to respect the heroes after their defeat; they may turn into a worthy opponent or even become a noblebigot as they struggle with their beliefs and begrudgingly admit that a group they had considered inferior does in fact have worthy people among them. Their beliefs might be a tragic flaw if they were drilled into them from a young age or they actually had to live in such a place were their views are justified.

Compare evilutionary biologist, evil evolves, and kill the poor and slobs versus snobs. Sometimes overlaps with objectivism and the "übermensch" concept. There's a bit of this trope in the satisfied street rat. Likewise, characters with a darwinist desire are usually only interested in applying social Darwinism on themselves and their offspring rather than imposing it on society, though both tropes can overlap in the same character. Compare and contrast living is more than surviving - Social Darwinist will variably put either survival or quality of life on top of others.

Note that charles darwin himself would not be amused by all these people and the way they interpreted his works; he proposed nothing of the sort. You never see a social Darwinist treating societies in the same way a real Darwinist treats species: Darwinists are interested in maintaining biodiversity, and Darwinism is a description of the way species work, not a prescription for what species should live and die. See appeal to nature for the fallacy of using "nature" to prescribe any behaviour (moral, immoral or not), and also see the analysis page for this trope for more information on that. This did not stop Social Darwinism from becoming a fairly mainstream philosophy from the Victorian era to WWII, when it became associated with the nazis; this association contributed greatly to its loss of popularity. However, the emergence of culture war politics in the late 20th century appears to have revived it to a certain extent.

