the handler of handlers, moving spies about all over the world. Often the chessmaster. Typically he is cold and dour, though sometimes he has a heart of gold. Easily made a villain though sometimes at least an antihero. Few main protagonists are Spymasters. The reason, of course, is that the hero has to be where "the action" is. Which is seldom in an office.

Compare knowledge broker for when the Spymaster is operating freelance.

  Amanda Waller and Sarge Steel have both filled this role for the U.S. Government in   Recurring  Moff Nyna Calixte a.k.a. Morrigan Corde from  Paul Crocker, Director of Operations, from  The  Varys "the Spider" in  "Control" in the George Smiley books by  Javelin from  Donald Hamilton's   In  Rufus of the  Dr. Harold Smith from the  Count Sigizmund Dijkstra is the Spymaster of Kingdom of Redania and one of the principal players in Andrzej Sapkowski's    "The Spider," a.k.a.  Thufir Hawat in  Salthar in the  Subverted  Each of  Major Hogan from the  Narses and Irene in  Reliable sources within  Imperial Inquisitor Meng Ki in the  Angleton from  In  The  Pretty much a stock character archetype in  In the  Louis Goliath of  Jules Sevier in  Earth's spymaster in  Bob Ritter from  In the  Michael Coldsmith-Briggs III,    The Ancient in  "Management" from  Colonel Hunter from   "Control", Robert McCall's former boss in  The Chief in  Mary Spalding on  Mycroft Holmes in  Clayton Webb on  Mr Waverly in  In  Harry Pearce in    Zhuge Liang in    In  Caius Cosades from  The announcer in   In    Varric Tethras is referred as "Dwarven Spymaster" in  In the later parts of the first  Yancy Westridge and Albatross in  In  Produce enough Spies in a  Hiram Burrows in  Ayla from the  Mr Socrates from  Number One from  J. Gander Hooter from   This page might as well have the picture of  Stewart Menzies of the British Secret Service was like the classic Spymaster of fiction too. Somehow the profession just seems to breed people like that.

 Captain Sir George Mansfield Smith-Cumming, the first head of the Secret Intelligence Service, whose particular party trick involved stabbing his false leg with a penknife. To this day heads of SIS are called "C".

 Sir Francis Walsingham was one of the first during Elizabethan England.

 "Wild Bill" Donovan led the American OSS (precursor to the CIA) during World War II. As his nickname suggests, he was anything but cold, dour, or reserved — essentially he was the  In the USSR, being head of the KGB made you pretty powerful. Beriya made a power-grab after Stalin's death and lost, being executed. Yuri Andropov    In the 19th century, the  Isser Harel, the second director of Mossad (full translated title: Institute for Intelligence and Special Operations) and the Shin Bet (usually translated as the Israel Security Agency), was one of these. He  In  Not content with being the only one among Napoleon's marshals who was never defeated, Louis-Nicolas Davout also had a very impressive network of military intelligence, which of course increased the tension between him and his fellow commanders. Joseph Fouché, Napoleon's most famous Minister of Police, was also known as the best-informed man in France and is commonly depicted as such in fiction (usually to the expense of his successor, General Savary, who is generally shown as being sinister but incompetent or just plain dimwitted).

 Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, the head of German military intelligence service early in World War II. Unique in that he both spied for and against his own government at the same time, being both a staunch German patriot and a determined enemy of Nazis. Given the circumstances, details of his wartime activities are difficult to piece together accurately.

