

The Svengali is a manipulative, controlling mentor that exploits their student for their own gain. While emphatically not a good mentor, The Svengali is usually not so much trying to pass on a legacy of evil (unlike the evil mentor) as control (and exploit) their disciple by any means possible, from just plain being a manipulative bastard through overt mind control to more than mind control, often with a side of stockholm syndrome, lima syndrome (or both), and mind game ship. Typically acting as the man behind the man, The Svengali is often also the chessmaster, or at least the strategist, in terms of PR campaigning.

The mentor/mentee relationship may cut both ways, though, since the follower often also serves as the muse to The Svengali, who may be hoist by his own petard as a result, unable to repeat his success without the student. The Svengali is liable to end up more dependent on the disciple than vice versa. lima syndrome is an occupational hazard, often along with some form of muse abuse, though The Svengali may not himself be an artist of any kind. Expect additional layers of dysfunction if The Svengali is also a stage mom (or Dad), in which case shades of knight templar parent are also likely. The Svengali also tends to pursue success so ruthlessly that bystanders are maimed.

The Svengali is more likely than the evil mentor to be obliviously evil. Watch out for appearances of "But I did it all for you!" and, conversely "I made you!" (for extra points, add "and I could break you just as easily.").

On the other hand, The Svengali is relatively unlikely to suffer from mentor occupational hazard, unless it's death by irony, and may be a karma houdini. Occasionally they will have a my god, what have i done? moment, and may be driven to suicide by the follower's abandonment, but such crises are almost equally likely to turn into an ignored epiphany.

The Svengali is a frequent, even near-inevitable, cause of rage against the mentor. Since The Svengali's job is usually to provide their ward with worldly success and ambition is evil, what have i become? moments (where applicable) tend to turn into What Have You Made Me moments, kind of like i hate you, vampire dad but with less fangs. Not to be confused with a mooching master: the mooching master might take advantage of his student, but he still genuinely cares for him and doesn't actually utilize him as a pawn beyond simple personal gains.

Often claimed about real life managers of actors and singers/bands, sometimes by the manager, presumably due to evil is cool.

The trope namer is a character in George du Maurier's 1894 novel Trilby, a hypnotist who makes the eponymous protagonist - tone deaf without him - into a famous singer.

Not to be confused with Svengoolie.

