Most characters in fiction, like people in real life, have broad lists of priorities and restrictions that determine their behaviour. We care about what other people think of us, how we will be able to feed ourselves in the future, the well-being of friends and family, our worldly goods, etc. etc. Of course how much we care about any given restriction or priority varies from person to person, but in general, we don't have any one given goal for which we would throw everything else away.

The Unfettered is not one of these people.

This is the character who can commit themselves to a single goal completely, absolutely, and unflinchingly. In pursuit of a goal they have no limits, inhibitions, or fear. Nothing chains them or holds them back (thus the name). You cannot make them flinch or falter. They cannot be intimidated, blackmailed, coerced, or otherwise convinced to back off from achieving their goal. There is no sacrifice they are unwilling to make or principle they are unwilling to compromise. The traits that make a character Unfettered can be summarized as follows:

     But The Unfettered does not have to be all purely unfettered all the time.

 Examples of characters who do not maintain this state indefinitely still count. This is a difficult thing for a writer to achieve in writing a story, or for a character to maintain within it. There are Unfettered who can only keep this up for a limited period of time, and may retire from the heroics to settle back into a life limited by family and career once their goal is achieved. Other characters don't become unfettered until events move them to throw away their chains. Going on  An unfettered is allowed to have multiple goals and still qualify as Unfettered, as long as he can still prioritize ruthlessly between goals. For this reason, Unfettered are rarely devoted to more than one person at a time, since they must be willing to sacrifice others regardless of how much they love or admire them. Somebody who is willing to list his Unfettered characters can be villains or heroes, though many are often the former. There is potential overlap with the complete monster, for the extremes the Unfettered is willing to go can be dangerously close to the line, but be careful; the Monster is by definition a character that is never sympathetic. Another potential overlap is jerkass as perceived by outside observers. Unfettered characters often have an allure entirely separate from how they are admired or reviled for their moral actions, so an Unfettered Monster must not be a character whose determination you can admire. Rarely are Unfettered characters magnificent bastards either; the Bastard often has limits, they're just the right ones. Also notable is that while pursuing his goal, the Unfettered has no godzilla threshold; any course of action that will help him achieve his goals is automatically a valid option.

Common characters who are Unfettered: High-functioning sociopaths, narcissists, many determinators and ax crazies, knight templars, unscrupulous heroes, chessmasters, glory hounds, pragmatic heroes, well intentioned extremists, combat pragmatists (the rules of fair play are fetters), bloodknights, byronic heroes, some examples of yandere, poisonous friends, and tricksters. The straw nihilist occasionally tries for this. Contrast this trope's opposite the fettered, a character whose self-imposed limits strengthen him. Which of the two an author makes an übermensch fall under tells a lot about the story's tone and philosophy. Also look for the occasional unfettered old master; in real life Zen masters, among the practitioners of other philosophical traditions, have been trying to become this sort of character for generations and generations.

