A classic character type, the beauty who uses her feminine wiles to undermine a moral and upright man, for evil purposes. She's evil and sexy, a liar and a sneak, and uses the good guy's sympathy against him, often with a sob story about her mother and some hospital bills or a wounded gazelle gambit.

Unlike the femme fatale and the mad scientist's beautiful daughter, she is rotten to the core, and will never be swayed from the path of darkness by love. (In eras where make up is evil applies, expect her to paint when no other woman does.)

The name comes from rudyard kipling's 1897 poem "The Vampire". It was popularized by the 1915 silent film A Fool There Was, which quoted liberally from the Kipling poem. It quickly became a trope of classic silent films, where this character is part of a standardized plot. A red-blooded American boy must choose between his familiar, cutesy-plain sweetheart and this seductress.

This trope is cyclic. In certain eras, as with the "hat dichotomy" from westerns, but more actual in fact, The Vamp is almost always black-haired, while the good girl is a blonde. At other times, blondes are inherently more evil. In the cold war era, the raven-haired temptress was a soviet spy, when not just a torturer like the baroness.

Is often the lady in red or the woman in black.

Although the name is derived from "vampire", this character is most commonly a normal human, but some supernatural entities are known to influence men in this way. succubi and Sirens are known to lure men in to be eaten or drained of life force, for example.

Expect some praying mantis imagery for these characters, as female mantises (are believed to) eat their mate's head after they're mating.

Compare with the femme fatale, the somewhat more sympathetic (and less sexual) version of this character(which may overlap with this trope if the character has ambiguous agenda.), and the casanova. Often overlaps with the black widow, who is just a particularly successful Vamp. See also villainesses want heroes.

Contrast with the heroic seductress, the vamp's direct counter trope, who uses sex for noble and heroic purposes.

Not to be confused with the other vamp.

