Just because the main characters are fighting to oust the big bad doesn't mean they're heroes... at least, not all of them.

In a team composed of good members, there will often be one Token Evil Teammate. Narratively, this character can serve as an distinct and amoral foil to his more strait-laced colleagues. If the Heroes start putting honor before reason, the Token Evil will often remind them that sometimes unpleasant methods are needed to save the world.

These characters are often played for laughs as the heroic comedic sociopath. A lot of the humor they provide is of the crosses the line twice variety, doing obscenely wrong things because it's shocking and unexpected, as well as a form of escapism. On the other side of the fence, a very serious character that fills this role might see it as dirty business, and do what they have to on behalf of the hero.

Despite the name, the Token Evil Teammate has a lot of leeway as to his character alignment. There are many kinds of anti-heroes, anti-villains and yes, outright villains who can fill this role. Regardless of character type, the mainstays of this role are usually: snarkiness, jerkiness, violence, and a tendency to become the butt monkey for their behavior. It should also be mentioned that "treachery" was not on that list. The thing with the Token Evil Teammate is that evil does not mean incapable of friendship. While they are usually out for themselves first, they will often have reasons to stay loyal to their team as a whole, or at least individual members.

Sometimes they'll (very) begrudgingly admit that they like their teammates, or at least find them less intolerable than they say, and frequently they find their association either lucrative, entertaining, or even enjoyable. If it's pointed out by somebody that they're not as bad as they make themselves out to be though, they'll generally tell them to shut up, or to take it back. For extra points, this can be done in either a very cold, aloof or very rude and loud way.

If they do betray their teammates, expect the captain to tighten the morality chain or restraining bolt and use various threats like death glares to bring them back in line. Why don't they kill him or at least kick him out? Because sometimes you just need the firepower, and they can "do more good than malice" (or at least less harm) on the good guys' side than dead or cut loose. Kind of like controlling a brush fire to good ends.

Some variations include: They're   The evil friend is  The  They were recruited because  They have an ulterior motive for joining the heroes, and the heroes' plans will further their own agenda.

 They have a  Sometimes they're just in it  Alternatively they are a type of  On rare occasions, Contrast big bad friend for where the team-mate's evil nature is a shock revelation. For the inversion, see token good teammate. For extremes on the spectrum, see good is not nice and affably evil. Usually, but not always, a nominal hero.

