

So you've got yourself an anti-villain. He's a pretty decent guy, and if you were on his side, you'd probably be best buds. And yet he constantly wants to kill you. Why? Can't you guys just talk it out? I mean, surely you can come to an understanding. What's the worst that can happen?

Oh wait, that's right: his boss will kill him.

See, many a big bad rules through fear, and that includes his subordinates. As such, they'll often threaten their mooks, their quirky miniboss squad, and even their dragon, with death (or some other severe punishment) should they fail in their tasks. That doesn't seem too bad to a villain if they see themselves working for the big bad indefinitely, but if they have a heel-face turn, a heel realization, or realize that they dug themselves too deep, what are they to do? Defy the big bad and get killed for it? Or keep on doing the villain's dirty work, even if that means just digging themselves even deeper into their disastrous situation? It's quite a conundrum.

Sometimes, a villain will find protection from the big bad (or those higher up on the food chain than him) by joining up with the good guys and using them as his shields. However, this isn't quite as easy if the villain is stuck in a hostage situation, or if their boss has the power to remotely kill off the former villain should they ever hesitate to perform the duties. But their strongest weapon is, again, fear. Even if it would be ridiculously easy to join the heroes (clinging onto their honor aside), sometimes a big bad will have such a strong grip of fear over his minions, that they don't even dare to try to betray their master.

The "oppressive force" in question doesn't always have to be a big bad, or even a villainous character. The former villain may have wielded a dark power, and failure to continue doing their job will cause the power to turn on them. This may be brought on by horror hunger, if an evil character has to feast on something...unpleasant, and after deciding he doesn't want to be evil anymore, will remain incapable of fighting his urges (at the risk of death).

See anti-villain for other forms of non-evil villainy. Compare with punch clock villain, where the villain does their evil deeds just because it's a job, and hey, they have to be paid (but they don't feel anywhere near as much remorse for it). This often occurs due to a character who is driven to villainy, but then wants to get out. Contrast just following orders, since that is used as an excuse after the fact, and in most cases they didn't have much of a problem following orders at the time. These may often overlap with forced into evil.

 Black Ghost in  Played with in  In  Many  In  Most of the villains in  In  In   In  Murtagh in the  The heroine and her    In an episode of    When Londo becomes Emperor of the Centauri in   Vampires have to drink blood, either killing the victim outright or turning their victim like it or not or they starve to death.

  There's a  Dr. Cossack from   The Reapers in  During the events of  From Chapter 10 of  In  In  In one arc of  In  In     In  In  In the first season finale of  In   This trope is certainly associated with criminal gangs and organized crime. Once you are initiated in (often by committing a murder or taking a beating), the only way out is to die. This leads to the term "Blood in, blood out".

 Many low-level people associated with Islamic terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda completely fall into this category. Tragic examples have included unwilling suicide bombers that are handcuffed or otherwise bound to their explosive vehicles.

