A gadfly screws with other people because it's amusing. Then there is the infamous Troll. What separates this character from a gadfly is that what they do is not supposed to be funny- or at least not to anyone but themselves. It's just cruel. all they want to do is see someone suffer or make a fool of themselves.The term trolling comes from fishing (i.e. trawling), of all things. The idea is that you set out some bait and watch as your victim grabs it and writhes for your amusement. Malcontents on the internet protected by anonymity have been doing this for years, hence the widespread usage of the term. When encountered in a game, a troll is often called a griefer. While the word and concept are based on these beginnings, the term has spread from there such that it has become a widely used term to discuss pointlessly cruel characters.

If they just want to see their victims flail, then they're a true Troll.

See also for the evulz. Compare and contrast the gadfly, who is relatively harmless, but can be easily mistaken for a troll on the internet. Supernatural versions of this trope can also be a jackass genie. Also compare and contrast attention whore, which nearly all trolls are accused of being, since their evulz rely on people actually responding to them. (Note, not all attention whores are trolls, but trolls are one of the worst kinds of attention whore.) The very worst trolls may qualify as pathological sadists.

Psychology Today announced that a serious scientific study was performed on the phenonemon and baldly pronounced that "... the associations between sadism and GAIT (Global Assessment of Internet Trolling) scores were so strong that it might be said that online trolls are prototypical everyday sadists" and "both trolls and sadists feel sadistic glee at the distress of others. Sadists just want to have fun ... and the Internet is their playground!"

For an article about mythological trolls, see all trolls are different.

The film of the same name is over here.

