no work of fiction is complete without a villain of some sort. After all, if there's no villain, who will create the conflict? Who will the heroes confront in the climax? who will sing the best songs?But sometimes, writers encounter a problem. See, sometimes... what the antagonist is doing? It's not illegal, or even immoral. At all. Like, in a sports story, the antagonist would just be the leader of the opposing sports team. If, say, you're writing an inspiring story about an underdog who aspires to be a great chef, the antagonist would be a tough-to-please food critic, or the owner of a rival restaurant. Sure, these people's success would make the hero's life worse, but in real life, nobody would hold it against these people. That's just the way the world works. Surely, these stories are forever bound to having both a hero protagonist and a hero antagonist, right? ...right?

Wrong!Meet the Villainy-Free Villain, the very personification of felony misdemeanor. To make sure that viewer sympathy is still squarely on the protagonist, the Villainy-Free Villain is an antagonist who compensates for his completely socially acceptable aspirations by being as much of a jerkass about them as humanly possible. He's not a villain, but he sure acts like one. It's as if he doesn't care about his own well-being, but sees his actions as a wonderful opportunity to crush the protagonist's hopes and dreams.

In any work of fiction in which an innocent person has been framed for a heinous crime and needs to track down the real culprit, the law enforcers mistakenly chasing after the innocent person are inevitably going to appear unsympathetic to the audience, even if their motives are beyond reproach. The hero may even end up fighting them as much as the villain. Authority figures who have to control children (teachers, especially) also make fine default villains. So do any authority figures whose job requires them to be harsh: police officers, judges, drill sergeant nasties.

This is a clear case of truth in television. A person doesn't have to kill or steal to be unlikeable. If you're a complete jerk to people and rub your own victories in the faces of the people you step over, you'll still be seen in a bad light.

Note that a character cannot qualify to be a Villainy-Free Villain if he participates in unethical activities. As the name suggests, this antagonist has all the aspects of the villain except the actual villainy.

On the other hand, if he is unpleasant but barely even does anything to fill the "antagonist" role, then he's a plot irrelevant villain. If he isn't necessarily unpleasant—heck, he can be even downright nice—yet his actions are the cause of unpleasant effects for other innocents without his knowing, he's obliviously evil. Compare hate sink, who isn't the main conflict-maker but acts nasty so the audience has someone to root against. For the fanon version, see ron the death eater, where a character is good in Canon, but the fans treat him or her as evil.

