Everybody loves a good david versus goliath situation. Watching the heroes triumph over apparently insurmountable odds is something we not only enjoy, but anticipate seeing. It's why tropes like underdogs never lose exist in the first place. So what happens then, when the underdog is the villain?

It's a lot rarer than the opposite, but on occasion you will find a story in which the villain(s) are outmatched, outgunned, outnumbered, or just generally outclassed by the heroes they face off against. In-series and out, the heroes are favoured to win, and have such a clear advantage that it's amazing the villains are able to pose any threat at all. In fact, that's where most of the drama in such a situation comes from—watching as our antagonists, whether through bravery, tenacity, brains, or sheer dumb luck manage to give our heroes a serious run for their money. Alternately, the trope may be played for laughs, with the whole point being watching the villain fail spectacularly.

Please note that this isn't just about cases in which the hero is a better fighter than the villain. A non-action big bad who has thousands of henchmen at his disposal can still be the Goliath to a lone hero's David (though were said non-action big bad to challenge the hero to a duel to the death this trope might be in effect). This is about cases in which an objective look at all factors reveals that the villain, rather than the hero, is at a significant disadvantage across the board.

Expect to see a lot of villainous valor in a situation like this. For more general David & Goliath battles see, well, david versus goliath. Often comes up in a brains: evil; brawn: good situation. Might overlap with ineffectual sympathetic villain if played for laughs. See invincible hero for the kind of protagonist who is almost guaranteed to have one of these in his rogues gallery.

  During  Sicks, the      Criminal mercenary Mark Scarlotti, alias Whiplash I/Blacklash I, was an  Part of the premise behind  Wendy Alec's   Most villains on   Captain Syrup, from  The Linear Guild tends to be this to  Dr. Horrible, of  Elmer Fudd of  The setup of    The title character from  Many of the villains from 