A specific type of sympathetic villain, or even a villain protagonist. A character who simply cannot become liked or even viewed by the other inhabitants of their world as basically good, no matter what they do. If they kick a soccer ball to a child who lost it, it will instantly morph into a puppy before the poor kid's very eyes just to retroactively force evil on this villain. If they have a love interest, almost all other characters (and possibly even the viewer) will think of their affections as stalker with a crush material. This character is often the object not merely of bad luck or karma but of active stereotyping, with the world at large openly calling their lifestyle, deeds, or existence (in the case of those with powers) things like "criminal", "wrong", or "abomination against [insert god here]."

Generally treated by the author as either a figure of comedy or of tragedy. A comedic mandatory-villain will generally keep on trying throughout the entire series or story to make themselves good, and will generally keep their spirits up despite the misfortune visited upon them. On the other hand, a tragic mandatory-villain will sometimes become so fed up with their lot in life that they decide to deliberately cross the moral event horizon into genuine villainy, and doing so may be treated either as a sign of the character's deep inner pain, as a sign that you can't fight fate, or as a sign that the character was too morally weak. When stereotyping is the thing that forces the villainy, there will sometimes be a stated or implied aesop that all the suffering could have been avoided but for the type-casting committed by the less sympathetic characters.

Compare with woobie, destroyer of worlds for the tragic version and with reformed, but rejected for those who actually started out as villains at some point. Contrast with ineffectual sympathetic villain for the comedic — with the difference being the intended morality at which the comedic character fails. Compare hero with an f in good.

