Villains who are thrust into a fish out of water situation never seem to have any trouble adjusting to their new surroundings, frequently becoming socially important and powerful, whereas a hero similarly displaced will stick out like a sore thumb, freaking out at the bizarre customs of the alien world/future/past/whatever and asking people "what year is this?" Just another day at the office for evil is cool and good is dumb, or maybe they're really just that dangerously genre savvy.

When there's an explicit justification, it's that evil is universal. Particularly, when the heroes are from some distant planet or time, and the new world into which they are thrust is our world, the justification is that we live in a corrupt and evil world where being a ruthless psychotic murdering villain is actually an advantage to getting ahead in life, whereas being good and pure-of-heart is a massive hindrance.

More subtly, it can be used on the planet of hats to remind us that our moral values are superior: the hero doesn't fit in because he has a hard time dealing with whatever character flaw everyone in this new world possesses, or can't just sit back and go with the flow on a world where everyone kicks puppies, listens to that newfangled rock-and-roll and women dress in navel-revealing slut-wear.

Sometimes the villain just put lots of points into blending in with society - otherwise, how would they have amassed power behind the scenes anyway? The hero often puts all his points into fighting the villain. If the hero gets to the villain, he wins, but the villain's best defense is having nobody take up arms against him to begin with, and then delaying the hero as much as possible. Both hero and villain make pretty reasonable bets.

Or, more pragmatically, it can just be to make things easier for the villain and therefore harder for the hero. An extension of this is the outside-context villain, who keeps all their advantages and abuses them in their new location.

As a corollary, it will generally be easier for the villains to convince the locals that they're friendly than it will be for the heroes to convince them that they're not evil. Even if the evilness of the villains is writ large enough to be detectable from space (via namedar). This mostly seems to result from the hero's stubborn refusal to shut the hell up about how great it was back in their world and to refuse to take on any native culture. They will wear the same outfit they had when they came him and constantly complain about the local food. This isn't helped by the fact that the hero will usually insist on going around shouting at people near-hysterically about how they're from the past and how utterly evil the villain is, in a fashion that only makes them come across like a complete psycho. The villain on the other hand will immediately trade in his duds for local wear and tuck into the native cuisine with gusto. He will never mention that he is from another world and be immediately accepted.

A heroic inversion of this trope is possible, but much rarer — see like a fish takes to water.

