A step down from the monster clown, a Villainous Harlequin is a villain that taps into the same vein as a Monster Clown but is usually played for laughs and rarely attempts to be outright scary.

A Villainous Harlequin (if female) will often be the perky female minion of the quirky miniboss squad, rarely going any higher on the sorting algorithm of evil. Compared to the Monster Clown- which is genuinely threatening- she is closer to an ineffectual sympathetic villain. She has shades of the trickster in her impulsive and anarchic ways, but lacks the intelligence necessary for this trait to provide any real danger. Whether male or female, a Villainous Harlequin may fancy him or herself as a smug snake, but his or her childish demeanor and outlandish appearance (which can range from traditional jester costumes to impossibly cool outfits and incredibly impractical poofy dresses if female) ruins any chance of anyone taking him or her seriously. Expect temper tantrums when his/her plans inevitably fail, and for him or her to either be a chew toy of the dragon or a member of the goldfish poop gang.

But be careful: if the Villainous Harlequin gets promoted to the dragon or big bad levels, you're going to have a serious case of who's laughing now? on your hands.

The Villainous Harlequin is the product of the popular view of the jester, which is that of an idiotic buffoon. (This is despite the fact that the jester was one of the most insightful members of a king's court, due to his position outside the usual social ranks). Interestingly, in some Renaissance art death itself is often portrayed dressed in motley, or "pied" clothing, which is often conflated with the true Harlequin outfit. The more danger a Villainous Harlequin poses to the protagonists, the closer he or she gets to monster clown.

 Pixy Misa from  Buggy the Clown from  The  Papillon from  Will in  Impmon in  The Juggler in    The Charlton/DC villains Punch and Jewelee are a married couple who both fit this role, as did the version of Toyman who was a member of the  The  Pierrot Lunaire is a foe of the Musketeer who dresses as the  Averted in  Stitches, Royal Pain's sidekick from  In Disney's  The eponymous antagonist in   In  One of the  Many,  Maaen from  Evil Jester from   One episode of  The Ringmasters in  One of these shows up as an antagonist in a  In the    Harley Quinn from the  Harlequin, the psychic gambler pig from  Shannon, the  Deathjester in  Tira from  Kefka in  The appropriately named Harle from  Reala and Jackle from  Dimentio, from  Also, Bowyer, a Boss from  Malcolm the Jester from   Played with in regards of the Royal Jester in   Cicero from  The  Shaco the Demon Jester in  Dhoulmagus, the  The redesign of  Clown Man, one of the  The Dark Wings from  Jokerella from  The  In the  Harley Quinn from  The Joker goes back to his   Quackerjack from  Hexadecimal from   In a  Jack-In-The-Box from  The Jester in the "Court Musician" segment in  An actual royal court jester was a villain in one 