Close relatives of always chaotic evil, these characters are defined morally and narratively by what they are, rather than who they are. Inevitably, the Villain by Default is a member of an organization or class that society as a whole has agreed is evil. For this reason, they require little to no additional characterization to cement their position in the story or motives, and in fact, most Villain by Default characters receive none.

Essentially, this is a way to supply ready-made antagonists and evil minions without sacrificing screen time. evil minions, dragon, and members of the quirky miniboss squad are more dependent on this trope than the big bad, since the big bad usually has enough screen time to more clearly establish their motives.

Nazis and neo-Nazis are possibly the ultimate example of modern cinematic Villain by Default characters, since these need no additional characterization - most of society agrees Nazis were evil simply by being nazis, and neo-Nazis are even more evil because they're the really dedicated ones (as opposed to the occasional Nazi that was conscripted).

Other common examples of Villain by Default types:

    Racial supremacists (unless   Slavers and slave-owners (unless in a society in which slavery is deeply ingrained and are shown to treat their slaves well.)

 Tobacco company executives

    People who are  Anyone or anything in a   Especially if the hero is poor or common-born, there is a tendency that    Bandits

 Soldiers, who are often portrayed as either as    Type 1  Political "advisors" from other countries in a  And of course, If the protagonist of the story is an anti-hero, such as a vigilante or mob boss, or is wrongly accused, then any form of law enforcement will be the villains. Whether this is because they are ineffective, corrupt, well-meaning-but-misinformed, or just in the protagonist's way depends on the specific story.

Naturally, whenever a group is cast as Villains By Default without additional justification, there will be a part of the audience that's going to disagree with the assessment. This is particularly true of works that are subtly or unsubtly pandering to one "fashionable" prejudice or another, or that are aimed at very specific audiences. This is where values dissonance will kick in: a work created by a fundamentalist Christian might have a "sinful" person (stripper, alcoholic, what-have-you) as an irredeemable villain, whereas a work by someone who despises Christians will want his/her audience to assume that Christians are the evil ones.

See also acceptable targets and designated hero. Compare sympathetic p.o.v. and designated villain.

Contrast with noble profession, where a character is stereotypically good because of their career path.

 Significant aversion: One episode of  The Abh from  Subverted to hell and back again on  In  The  Intentionally averted in  The Nazis in the  In   Used and then deconstructed in  It was obvious that Kim Lurker from  In  Quite simply  You can pretty much count that any non-human robot in the  In  Templars in  Two of the bosses in Demonization: Oftentimes a character's occupation is not inherently evil, but has been demonized by Hollywood. Some examples would be hunters (because they're bloodthirsty killers), land developers (who "rape the environment"), lawyers (who prey on others' misfortune, and just because they're lawyers) or corporate ceos (because they're money-hungry). And don't forget scientists (especially those dealing with anything nuclear or genetic), who're often depicted as mad scientists. Once demonized in the story, these ones are treated just as evil as a Nazi, terrorist, etc. For positions of Gods, the ones involving the Dead and Death almost inevitably get this treatment. Note that this has a postmodern effect, in that many people may now actually see such professions as wicked in and of themselves; on the other hand (and in all fairness), these tend to be professions that annoy people in the first place.

  Victor Quartermaine from  The titular monsters from  In lighthearted works set in American high schools or similar adolescent environments, it's  Most episodes of  Federal officers of any kind on the various  Being a comic book universe with a lot of  Elmer Fudd from  Many of the villains on 