Evil sows the seeds of its own destruction. At least that's what every aesop and fortune cookie says, anyway. There seems to be some truth to it, at least in fiction. Regardless of how genre savvy they might otherwise be, villains tend to inherently draw heroic attention to themselves that leads to their demise, or at least the demise of their evil plan. Even if their success is seemingly assured, they can't seem to help but do something, anything, that serves no purpose other than giving the hero the extra motivation and opportunity to wreck everything, and he will.

Basically, they're saddled with carrying their own version of the idiot ball: the Villain Ball.

Sure signs that the Villain Ball is in play is when the villain adds needless complications to their plan for the sake of tormenting others. They may claim this is all for the sake of averting attention, but it tends to have the opposite effect. Frequently (often due to pride) they insist on taking care of things personally when there's no reason an expendable mook couldn't do it, or the preference for a grisly and complicated death trap over more pragmatic hero-disposal solutions. This is also what seems to motivate them to frequently take one of the hero's love interests hostage in exchange for the macguffin and immediately go back on the deal, ignoring that a vengeful hero is likely a greater threat than a merely pissed-off one. It seems they just can't help themselves, they are compelled to stop in their tracks to threaten innocent puppies just to show that they really are the villains, no really!Inevitably, it's their own inherent fatal flaws that lead to their downfall, sometimes by humiliation conga. This may even lead to an apropos karmic death or cool and unusual punishment.

When a previously composed and unflappable villain picks up the Villain Ball and runs with it as soon as his plans start going awry (which, naturally, only hastens his downfall), it's a villainous breakdown.

sub-trope of evil will fail. See also contractual genre blindness, often a choice when the villain has complexity addiction. For villains who pass the Villain Ball, see dangerously genre savvy. For those who pick it up and run with it, see stupid evil. Contrast flaw exploitation, no-nonsense nemesis, and pragmatic villainy.

Also see and contrast the villain makes the plot.

