Only a scant few villains work under a conventional moral framework with standards, fewer acknowledge the egocentricity implicit in the wrong they do, a distressing number are beyond all attempts at being reasoned with. And to make things worse, these also tend to be too powerful to beat.

In these cases, the only solution is for the heroes to actively care bear stare him into growing a conscience to make him voluntarily stop his rampage... because the accumulated shame, guilt, and mental instability over his misdeeds will be too much for him to bear. The heroes may not have used mind rape on him but they might as well have, because now that he has the heart and conscience of a hero he can't help but suffer a heroic bsod. He'll weep openly, become suicidal, and may either will himself into non existence or beg to be killed. The heroes have basically talked the monster to death by helping him grow a conscience.

The exact reaction depends on the villain and the weight of his sins. One that hadn't yet gotten to do much more than poke the poodle or kick the dog once may survive with emotional counseling. If he slipped further? The black hole he's become will finally crush him. Things can get really interesting if the character, through his own fault, invited in mind control, demonic possession, or the virus, and entirely remembers all the evil things he did under its control — that wouldn't have happened if he'd fought it off, but which he had no control over.

One unlikely, but possible, outcome is that he reacts not with unbearable sadness but overwhelming anger at the heroes for daring to make him "feel like this!" This tends to make him even more dangerous. nice job breaking it, hero.

A common subversion has the villain turn out to be so evil that when they are forced to realise all the pain they've caused they either don't care or are downright happy about it.

Despite the intense emotional anguish this causes, Heroes can pull this with impunity since it's not killing anyone (directly, anyway), saves lives, and in the long run is a fairly elegant form of justice that may even bring about a heel-face turn. Then again, they may do this knowing the effects are temporary and only do it to weaken the villain psychologically long enough to kill him. Even normal, moral people can turn evil, and they may reason they don't want to give him a second chance.

Subtrope of villainous breakdown. See also brainwashing for the greater good and alas, poor villain