Villains commit crimes for many reasons, usually petty and short sighted. Occasionally though, there are villains with a clear goal behind committing their atrocities; some great, some terrible, all terrifyingly well executed. These are Visionary Villains, who see "the big picture", and have a clear head about what they want to accomplish and how to do it without juggling a villain ball. They are defined by the word "ambition", and no matter how noble their intentions are, fundamentally want to change things and pridefully think they know best.

As antagonists, their morality can be anywhere on the scale from well-intentioned extremist to complete monster; all that changes is the motivation for wanting to achieve their goal. The common thread is that they have seen the state of the world and want to change it, whether into something better or worse varies.

A sympathetic villain may want to kill the people responsible for his dark and troubled past and freudian excuse so it never happens to someone else, perhaps becoming an avenging angel or antihero of sorts. On the other hand, a laughing monstrous card carrying straw nihilist may want to take over the world (or end it) because he sees society as nothing more than a poor Masquerade, and peeling it away will expose the true face of humanity.

If they assemble a team or organization around themselves, expect them to give at least one new era speech to less ambitious, clear sighted, or bright minions. their individual styles of leadership are often directly related to their goal. A charismatic dark messiah may gather followers and teach them utopia justifies the means, an evil overlord will rally the empire to realize his vision of a peaceful unified one world order, and a mad scientist will create tree people not for pure science, but to replace a planet-killing humanity. The two powers all Visionary Villains share are a big brain and silver tongue. This trope is a part of what Nietzsche said defined the übermensch, so villainous characters who evoke that trope are also this by definition.

Contrast cut lex luthor a check. The opposite of punch clock villain. Frequently sneer at minor or petty villains who yell "screw the rules, i have supernatural powers!!"

