

Basically, a group of terrorists who are mostly from the West (Europe or North America, although groups from South America, Australia, or even Oceania could qualify), and who are mainly influenced by cultural, political or religious ideas of Western origin. The trope may also cover a single individual. What makes someone "Western" can be rather hazy and difficult to define, since it's not simply a matter of where the person was born or grew up (many Islamic terrorists, generally regarded as non-Western, lived the majority of their lives in the West, and for that matter many elements of Islamic culture - coffee-drinking, for instance, which was originally Arabic and Turkish - have profoundly influenced Western society and vice versa, making it tough to ascertain who's "Western" and who's not).

Generally, a "Western terrorist" is a terrorist fighting for something that has been an issue in the West for a long time - an ideological offshoot, for better or worse, of the legacies of the European feudal system, the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, or the scientific revolution launched in the seventeenth century, like anarchism, communism, Christian religion, environmentalism, nationalism, or racism, as opposed to an issue most strongly associated with another culture (like non-Christian religion, which of course raises the fascinating question of whether to classify israeli terrorists as Middle Eastern or Western). Bear in mind that an apparently non-Western terrorist group may be secretly led by Western terrorists acting as the man behind the man. For example, this would be the case if an apparent Islamic terrorist group turned out to be part of a secret neo-Nazi plot to provoke World War III (unlikely, yes, but stranger things have happened).

creators may opt to draw from real life terrorism cases from Anders Breivik to the Oklahoma City bombing to the civilian mass-murders orchestrated in northern ireland, instead of the arguably more topical example of Middle Eastern terrorists. They may find Western terrorism more interesting than its counterparts in the rest of the world. Additionally, using Western villains often seems like an easy way of skirting any racial or ethnic unfortunate implications (though many Middle Easterners are of Caucasian descent, or at least look it). However, there is also danger with this approach: if used in improbable contexts, or to replace non-Western terrorists in an adaptation or update, the use of Western terrorists can start to look like a cheap case of acceptable targets.

Some groups of Western Terrorists that have appeared in media and news are various animal wrongs group, whose actions have been dubbed eco-terrorism. There are also militia groups. Other examples include extreme Nationalists and radical extremists. the troubles in Northern Ireland is also notable - a definitely European dispute, with white Christians involved in sectarian violence which included riots and violence. (On the other hand, the Irish Republican terrorist movement is definitely anti-colonialist, and anti-colonialism is usually thought to be a non-Western theme.) In recent years, there are those who commit terrorism in the West as lone wolves without being affiliated with known established terrorist organizations.

Another good source of Euro-villainy is the post-Soviet weaponmonger. This person may be a fascist, but usually they serve no cause other than the creation of chaos, a self-sustaining market for their endless supplies of nukes, viruses, and other deadly toys for their more ideologically minded customers to use on each other. In series where such black-market dealers and corrupt corporate executives exist, they inevitably prove to be more dangerous than the Islamists/neo-Nazis/revolucionistas/etc. to whom they're selling weaponry. Newer ones however prefer to reinstall the old soviet regime without the communist ideals and instead aim for a rule resembling more that of Ivan the Terrible.

This trope should not be confused with Partisans - resistance groups who fight regular military forces. Unlike Terrorists, Partisans are perfectly legal under international law - if and only if they have a chain of command, some means of identification from a distance, and carry their weapons openly. Otherwise, they are unlawful combatants. Note, this doesn't prevent characters from calling their attacks terrorism despite their legal legitimacy. Partisans are covered here on tv tropes as la résistance. To be a true terrorist, one must both be ideologically motivated and engage in what is widely recognized as violent criminal behavior.

Some Western Terrorists are also terrorists without a cause. Often overlaps with your terrorists are our freedom fighters, especially when the Western Terrorists are portrayed as Irish or white supremacist. See also white gang bangers.

