This quote, or one very much like it, can be found in hundreds of places. A lot of those places are fairy tales. When confronting a fairy tale witch you can, via the magic of beauty equals goodness often tell the good from the bad. The Wicked Witch check list is as follows (have more than about four of these and you have yourself a bad one):

 Very old,   Wrinkled skin.

  Warts.

 Facial hair.

  If she doesn't have green skin and gray hair it will be  Long stringy hair or a  Missing teeth.

 If teeth are present they will be irregular or decayed.

  Wears a    Lives in a strange or simply just isolated cottage.

  Makes potions, often in a large cauldron and with ingredients like    Which is odd really, seeing as - apart from the last four items - these may just as well describe someone's granny in a pre-industrial society. Even the "potions" could be harmless, if someone just interpreted preparing folk remedies the wrong way (this sadly contributed to the large number of women burnt as witches over the centuries). 21 could also work, depending on how you define "cursing".

Good witches tend to be young and pretty, or at least have aged gracefully. If your subject is nice to look at, but evil, you may well have a vain sorceress instead.

Perhaps because most bards were male back then, wizards get better press, seeming to get more "good" and sage-like with age. But then again, there was a time when "witch" literally meant "person who received magical power from the devil", which would make a non-evil witch an oxymoron. If a non-evil female magic user appeared in folklore, she'd be referred to with a term like "sorceress" or "fairy godmother" instead.

She's an "earthy" version of the evil sorcerer (but obviously not closer to earth), and might also come in hollywood voodoo flavor. It's likely that every witch in existence will be this trope in a setting where magic is evil. There might also be some overlap with the wicked stepmother and the evil matriarch; however, royalty tends to be beautiful.

In settings tending more towards magic realism than typical fantasy worlds, their magical powers will be downplayed, but their prophecies will have a bad habit of coming horribly true, especially if they get insulted or snubbed.

Usually uses black magic. Compare cute witch, hot witch, widow witch, and vain sorceress. See also witch species.

