It seems like any major military- or corporate-backed venture to give a mundane person super powers or just enhance their normal abilities always results in the test subject going uncontrollably berserk as a side-effect.Sometimes the choice of test subject is clearly to blame. Convicted criminals make pretty poor guinea pigs if you're trying to develop a super soldier who can punch out a tank, yet nobody in any of these programs ever seems to have been given the most basic psychiatric evaluation. The evidence indicates a connection between morals and one's ability to remain "sane." Normally, using the power makes you crazy the longer you use it, because evil feels good, but a noble, heroic character is better able to stay in control.Other times, it seems that insanity happens as a side effect for no discernible reason other than to justify the needs of the plot and/or give the super individual a weakness that they must struggle to balance and maintain. This also gives the badass normal their one edge over the competition as they lack this weakness.

This trope can also arise if the principle that knowledge is power is extended to these are things man was not meant to know.

Sometimes, the creators of the super being realize the error while in the prototype phase and will seal the subject away, hoping everyone just forgets about them. this never works. Often, the first subject to undergo the process — or a single subsequent subject — will turn out okay, so on top of all the various other issues that the treatment has, it's usually their job to clean up the mess made by subsequent failed attempts. If it's a science is bad story, the sponsors of the program are likely to just keep pumping out nutty prototypes hoping they'll eventually make one that is not insane.

If all else fails, it'll seem like it happened just to make the aesop "Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely" appear in the story.

karmic death is a frequent end for not only the subject, but the scientists who created him/her/it.

May be either the cause or the result of science-related memetic disorder, especially if the person is already a mad scientist to begin with.

invisibility seems to drive one insane, or at least evil, more than any other power, because it lets you spy on people undetected and escape easily without consequences. h. g. wells' novel The Invisible Man is the trope codifier for invisibility letting you be evil in the modern era, but the germ of the story is much older than that; if you asked Wells where he got the idea he would probably have mentioned plato's tale of the ring of Gyges (from The Republic).

Shapeshifting and telepathy are close seconds to invisibility as potential causes of this trope, probably due to personality powers; after all, changing identities too often might result in losing track of the real you, and having other peoples' thoughts in your head is a lot like voices in your head (or can be abused for big brother is watching). Anything can theoretically trigger it, though. Getting energy blasts can result in psycho electro. Getting charles atlas superpowers can result in ax-crazy. Getting flying brick powers can result in beware the superman. Knowing that one is a reality warper will cause a god am i and the warper to remake the world in his own image. And of course, think of all the power perversion potential.

This is the inverse of power born of madness. Often occurs when someone acquires god-like powers. One possible way to stave this off is to think "a god i am not." Always occurs when someone makes serious use of an artifact of doom, provided the user isn't eaten on the spot by said artifact.

A.K.A. Comes Great Insanity for short, to go with the original version, comes great responsibility. Compare the corruption, almighty idiot, drunk with power, god for a day and mad god.

