The word "yandere", a term that blossomed in moe fandom, refers to a character who is crazy about someone else...often literally and violently. Despite the anime-inspired name, this type of character is much, much older than that, as one of the earliest examples is the mesopotamian goddess Ishtar (Inanna).

Yanderes are usually identifiable by their blank eyes when they go crazy, blood being soaked on them for the majority of their screentime, carrying at least one signature weapon that they use to kill and/or attack others for the majority of their screentime, a mostly moe appearance or at least an appearance that will deceive others, psychotic behavior, and a tendency to attack and/or kill people who would get in the way of his/her love. Many of them are ax-crazy. When on the Good Guys' team, they are often the token evil teammate.

The character almost always appears perfectly cute and harmless on the surface... but underneath they may be obsessive, controlling, and sometimes just plain insane. Woe to anyone who happens to be the object of their often genuine affection. Even more pity should be saved for anyone who gets in the way — the psycho-obsessive is amazingly unwilling to put up with any rivals (but the rivals had it coming). There could be a long mental instability; the boy's/girl's always been just a little bit off. Could be the vicious product of break the cutie. Often eventually goes off the deep end and becomes an ax-crazy boy with psycho weapon/girl with psycho weapon, and that's just fun. May also be not good with rejection. As a result, they are potentially scary.

Such characters are mostly female, but male examples exist.

Compare with the violently protective girlfriend, who can become ax-crazy when the love interest is in danger, but is otherwise MUCH more stable mentally. See also living emotional crutch for a reason why she goes from affectionate to murderous.

More details are available on the analysis page, such as its history and its appeal.

Part of the dere family along with tsundere (unapproachable outside, sweet inside), or sub groups; kuudere (cold outside, sweet inside), and dandere (asocial outside, sweet inside). However, those are all sweet inside, while the Yandere is sweet outside, crazy inside. Also compare cute and psycho, who is also sweet and crazy, but whose craziness isn't tied to love.

See also clingy jealous girl, her spear counterpart crazy jealous guy, love makes you evil, love makes you crazy, stalker with a crush, domestic abuser, violently protective girlfriend, and if i can't have you. Compare stepford smiler and psycho supporter. May God have mercy on you if you are caught in a psychotic love triangle (a love triangle with two members being Yanderes).Contrast with bitch in sheep's clothing, in which a character is consciously using the illusion of purity and niceness to cover up a sadistic true nature (though a BISC can become a Yandere if we add mental instability to the mix). At the extreme, a love to dismember can occur. Due to their often violent nature, they are likely to be the unfettered. The more savage examples also very likely to be faux affably evil. Don't confuse with Yandere Kanojo, a manga which surprisingly doesn't involve actual yandere (except for one case, in which the victim had it coming. It ends well, though).

One may be compelled to wonder why the object of their affections doesn't just shoot them.It should be noted that while many below listed examples are drama and horror ones, this trope is not exclusively played for drama. It might just as well be played for laughs through comedic sociopathy and/or black comedy as it is for drama or horror.

Almost all the examples listed below are spoilers, so read at your own risk, tee-hee!

                

Wait, you're leaving? No, don't leave! I thought I was the perfect read! I saved my best editing for you! You have to stay...!

