Commonly in a sic 'em scene, the big bad - usually a diabolical mastermind - kills one of their henchmen who has failed to capture and/or kill the hero, as motivation to all of their other (surviving) underlings not to repeat their failure. Presumably, the other underlings immediately all fall into line instead of (say) quietly updating their resumes and trying to find a less psychopathic overlord to work for. Some bad guys will use the blofeld ploy to pull off the underling murder. Others will drop the offending underling through a trap door into a shark pool or other deathtrap, or feed them to their right-hand attack dog. A variation has the big bad not killing the failed underling on the spot but sending him off on a suicide mission, usually with a cold-hearted reminder that doing one's duty comes before self-preservation.

The big bad may eventually realize there's something special about the hero and stop summarily executing minions for their failures as they gain a healthy admiration for their skills, but don't bet on it. Evil organizations more often than not will stick to an explicit policy of "Succeed, or die."

Few stories address the question of what happens when this policy is taken to its logical conclusion. realistically, such a policy causes its practitioners to kill off many of their own skilled leaders, while leaving the survivors demoralized, afraid to take initiative, more concerned with sucking up and dodging blame than with actually doing their jobs well, and inclined to either desert, defect, or kill their boss before he kills them. See the unfortunate results described in the Hitler and Stalin examples under "Real Life". Sometimes, this makes it easier for the heroes to spare mooks when they beg for mercy; if the heroes know that the minions will be killed if they try to return to the villains' service, they know they won't end up regretting letting them live, and might even do so because they believe the minions are working under duress.

Another variant on this is instead of the big bad doing this, a high-ranking, oftentimes very loyal, and particularly ruthless official working for the big bad, possibly the dragon, does it instead — perhaps without the boss' approval.

Some big bads do this by phone. Mook 1 phones big bad with bad news while Mook 2 stands nearby. big bad asks Mook 1 to pass his phone to Mook 2. Mook 2 says "Ok Boss, I understand. I'll see to that rightaway. Bye Boss... here's your phone back" and then shoots Mook 1 while he is distracted with his phone.

See also: bad boss, shoot the messenger, you have outlived your usefulness, and villainous demotivator. Contrast even evil has loved ones, i will punish your friend for your failure, and can't kill you, still need you. Related to karmic death.

