To show or remind the viewer how nasty the big bad or his evil minions are, a common trope is their habit of callously disposing of anyone who is no longer useful to their plans, whether it be an associate of an evil organization who has just concluded their useful function within that organization, or an outsider who the villain has coerced or tricked into carrying out part of their plan who is killed once they have done what the villain has ordered. It is often punctuated with words to the effect of "You have outlived your usefulness" or "you have served your purpose" before the murder.

In the case of a bribed outsider who was only loyal for the promise of money, this does make a little sense. Not only does the big bad avoid having to pay them for services rendered, but they remove a direct link back to them as the master of the plot. And there's always the fact that someone loyal to the money more than the cause is a risk to betray the big bad to whoever offers them more. Alternatively, it could be to punish a minion for asking for a raise, especially when done right before the critical mission, with the implication that the minion is aware of their own importance to the plot and intends to use that as leverage.

A particularly callous villain may also do this to an underling who has been defeated, combining this trope with you have failed me. May also happen to a villain who thought he was the big bad, but forgot that evil is not a toy or expected the sealed evil in a can to be loyal to him after its release. More realistically, the victim in question may be privy to information that the villain doesn't want to get out — as the pirates say: "Dead men tell no tales."

Then you have any kind of predatory monster who just thinks there's no point in wasting good meat.

Finally, sociopathic villains are notorious for viewing people as little more than tools to be used and then discarded once they've served their purpose, with this trope being perhaps the ultimate form of this callous attitude.

If the big bad is also particularly annoyed by how his evil minions have functioned in their role, he may use the blofeld ploy.

A variant of this trope is common when a villain who has enlisted the help of the oblivious heroes reveals his true villainy, the comment usually following his gloating of how they played right into his hands. Warning to any genre savvy villains out there: This version of the trope has a noticeably lower success rate, and trying it on the hero is tantamount to suicide.

Compare you have failed me (when the executed underlings are killed because they didn't succeed), rewarded as a traitor deserves, we have reserves, and uriah gambit. shoot the builder is a subtrope. Contrast can't kill you, still need you. See also villainous demotivator and even mooks have loved ones.



You reached the end of the page. And you're done editing. We have no more need of you. (bang!)