It's a rare and lucky evil overlord who manages to get the empire nice and entrenched, perhaps even managing to take over the world. And when they do, life probably seems pretty good, what with being master of all they survey. There's just one little problem they sometimes face. (Well, two, if you count those pesky heroes, but they'll be dealt with soon enough.) Everyone hates them.

Everyone.

The reason varies. Sometimes, it's their little hobby of periodically going out and raining terror, destruction, and death upon the quivering populace to remind everyone who's boss. Sometimes, it's the high taxes (or tribute, if you're particularly old-fashioned) they demand to keep themselves living a life of luxury as the peasants starve. Sometimes, it's just because they have a different fashion sense than everyone else, and insist on making everything look drab, gray, and depressing. And sometimes... who knows?

One almost has to pity the evil overlord who faces this. Sure, it's expected that a few foolhardy souls would form some sort of heroic rebellion, but it must hurt that, with the exception of the evil minions working directly for them (or, in extreme case, especially the evil minions working directly for them), every single human being or other sentient creature in their dominion hates their guts and yearns for the day they're overthrown. The only consolation they've got is that most of the populace are willing to keep their heads down and hope to stay out of trouble. But it's a sure bet that even those people still grumble, and those damn rebels can be pretty confident of getting quiet assistance from just about anyone they meet.

An evil overlord running the empire doesn't always have this problem, it should be noted. Sometimes, they favour a certain segment of the population while keeping another segment down, so they have support in some quarters. Other times, they manage to keep their true nature hidden, becoming a villain with good publicity who just about everyone loves, except for the few who find out about the true evil hiding behind the government conspiracy. Still other times, it turns out that a lot of people just don't care that the people in charge are openly homicidal, demon-worshiping alien hybrids who eat souls and babies, as long as they get their bread and circuses.

This serves a pragmatic reason for writers in terms of keeping things morally justified for our heroes. Because if they were taking out an emperor who was popular with the people or who had done good work for the country under their control for a (usually) personal vendetta, they wouldn't seem that much like heroes at all! Then again, it happens sometimes, and then you have people rooting for the empire.

For some reason, a Zero Percent Approval Rating rarely stops an overlord from recruiting hordes of utterly loyal mooks. Trustworthy lieutenants and advisers are much harder to come by for the hated tyrant, though.

Of course, if a Zero Percent Approval Rating really bothers you, there's always the option of brainwashing, or singling out a couple of people and turn them into les collaborateurs. The evil overlord who wants to work at it can try bread and circuses.

Sometimes, the evil overlord feeds on people's hatred/fear, so there's no reason for them to try to be popular. In other cases the evil overlord is some sort of incarnation of ultimate evil who just doesn't care that he or she has a Zero Percent Approval Rating. Then again, maybe he or she should consider some photo ops.

If the person has a plan that requires this, then it's a zero approval gambit. the caligula often possesses this sort of approval rating. Compare and contrast 100% adoration rating.

Nota Bene: This trope does not work in real life because real politicians start running into major problems before they can achieve a ZAR. "Very low" is different from "zero". In stable governments, politicians with very low approval ratings are unable to accomplish any legislating, because they're working with other politicians who don't want their approval ratings to plummet. In less stable situations, politicians with very low approval ratings are overthrown before they can hit the zero mark. Even in a complete and absolute dictatorship, the leader needs to maintain at least the grudging approval of his bodyguards, most of the army, and the top bureaucrats, to avoid being deposed/shot at the first possible opportunity. They also commonly have support among certain segments of the population, like their family or a minority race. This trope also doesn't work on polls and movie reviews as well, because polls and movie review are sampled through a small group of people and is often biased towards one opinion. 

