

Also called an escalator school. An actual kind of school out there consisting of a single institution or (more commonly) a set of sister schools that offer education from elementary or middle school (or even kindergarten) all the way to the university level.

Often, elementary school, junior high, high school, and college are separate institutions requiring prospective students to pass rigid entrance examinations at each transition. Elevator schools, however, allow students to move to the next educational level without having to take the standard entrance exams. (In particular, they allow students to bypass the notoriously hellish high-school entrance examinations.) Despite or perhaps because of this, elevator schools often themselves require students to pass an examination to gain admission at all.

In most countries, this is simply what the public school system does, taking in any and all students of the appropriate age living in a defined geographic area. Some countries (such as japan) have it so that almost all private schools are like this and they are typically very expensive and prestigious, so expect the student body to display luxury tropes.

Note that it's still entirely possible to flunk out of these schools, so they don't work as an explanation for lazy or frequently-absent students. What they do do is provide a quick and easy way to realistically have characters of very different ages in the same school-like setting.

Not to be confused with wayside school, where nobody uses the elevators anyway.

 Ohtori Academy in  The CLAMP School, the main setting of  Mugen Gakuen (Infinity Academy) and T.A. Girls' School in  Mahora Academy in  Ouran Academy in  Saki Girls School in  Maijima Private Academy from  Eriol Academy from  The Sakurakaoka Academy in   The Ayanoi Gakuin in  Supposedly Hakuou of  Sakashitamon Academy in  Oujou in    The school attended by the cast of   Morinomiya in  The prestigious San Marx Private Arts Academy from  Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters/Xavier Academy, in the comic book, cartoon and theatrical versions of the   Rushmore academy from   The high school in the   The school in  The only explanation Max being in the same school as Justin and Alex since the  In the video game  Bullworth Academy from    The Collegium Caelum in    Before the 20th century, due to limited transportation, the need for children to help their parents out on the farm, and the lack of teachers, especially in the frontier, most schools of the era had a dizzying range of age for the students.

 Those are also common in Mexico today. The Instituto de Ciencias in Guadalajara, for example, has all grades from kindergarten to high school. If you stretch it a little bit, you might consider the ITESO — founded by priests from the I de C — as part of the campus (and indeed they have a "direct pass" if your GPA is higher than 85%), thus technically making it the same school from kindergarten  Certain schools - both state and private - in the UK also resemble this.

 Rural regional schools in Australia often have a small student body, so most schools go from CPC(preschool) to year 12. Many private/religious schools also do this.

 New Zealand has  Pine View School in Osprey, Florida, a public gifted school that ranges from 2nd to 12th grade, all on the same sprawling campus.

 The Escuela Nueva Laboratorio (New Laboratory School) in Costa Rica has only 1 30-student class in each grade going from preschool (called "5 years" the kids age at the time) to the 6th grade (12 years). The graduates can continue to Liceo Laboratorio Emma Gamboa (Emma Gamboa Laboratory High) which has 3 classes per grade, that never change throught 7th grade to 11th (there's only 11 grades in Costa Rica)

 The Moravian Academy in Bethlehem, PA. The school also has an association Moravian College which is nearby.

 In Detroit, there was a campus that included an Elementary School, Middle School, and High School on the same property, though in seperate buildings. It was one of the many places that have been shut down in the city's recent budget-induced closings over the past few years, though.

 The way the Venezuelan educational system is made means that the most common type of public school is a "Unidad Educativa Básica" (Basical Educative Unit), who teach what is known as the "basic cycle", ranging from ages 5 to 16, and grades 1st-9th. Some UEB have kindergartens, but that's not common outside of big cities. There are also the ones popularly known as "Liceos", who teach grades 7-9 plus the two-three years of "ciclo diversificado" or " In the Philippines, it's not uncommon for universities to have high schools, elementary schools, and even kindergartens attached, usually in the same general area. Also, one university (such as De La Salle University or St. Scholastica's College) may have different campuses (and adjacent high schools...etc.) all over the country.

 Tends to happen in college towns in the US too; just for example, the University of Arkansas has an elementary school and a combined middle and high school (same campus, different buildings) all within walking distance of the main university campus, in addition to several daycares. They aren't the only schools in the area though.

 In Denmark, the normal public school system works like this; going from kindergarten classes to 9th grade.

 The Grupo Objetivo in Brazil works this way. There are schools from the kindergarten to the high school and preparatory schools for the universities' admission exam (aka "vestibular") named "Colégio Objetivo". Their owner also own the Associação Unificada Paulista de Ensino Renovado Objetivo, that contains 21 colleges, so one person can go from kindergaten to the grad school without exiting its domains.

 Standard operating procedure in Russia and most other post-Soviet states, where elementary, junior high and high are usually the same school, consisting of 10 or 11 grades, called a "middle school" ("high" is a university or college).

 Some of the oldest  In North America, some of the more prestigious universities will have affiliated "feeder" high schools or preparatory academies. Examples include the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools for University of Chicago and University of Toronto School for University of Toronto (in general, if the name of the university is in the name of the high school), it's probably a favored feeder. While admission is not always guaranteed, getting into the university is generally much easier because of the school tailoring their curriculum and extracurriculars to the host university's needs.

