It's hard to have anything approaching an adult relationship in Japan. Especially the Japan of anime. Once you get past the obstacles of attracting any attention, actually getting around to encountering an amenable romantic interest without blowing it from the get-go, running the gauntlet of finding true love, and sidestepping typical anime romantic obstacles, there is still one surprisingly difficult issue.

Japan is crowded. Japan is expensive (well, Tokyo's expensive, and nowhere else counts, right?). As a result, even if you're of age to engage in certain physical activities, you probably don't have any private space in which to do that and not get caught. You may even be living with your parents, which is a whole other level of uncomfortable. Even if you can manage a rendez-vous, your six-tatami, underlighted, cluttered room with the one-person futon isn't likely to inspire romance. And unlike your North American counterparts, you likely don't own a car and only advanced, highly acrobatic positions tend to be possible on a bicycle, even with the kickstand down.

So, what's a couple to do, at least without acting like a hentai pair (i.e. making love in all the wrong places) and using any location within two minutes walk of where the mood strikes?

Enter the love hotel. Over the last number of years, the love hotel industry has become quite profitable. They are locations which specialize in providing a place for a couple to have sex.

In the West, hotels of this sort tend to be seedy, quasi-criminal affairs frequented by prostitutes and populated by unsavory characters, or motels far, far outside city limits, reachable only by car and the location of choice for affairs and civil servants (or at least, people who claim to be civil servants). However, classic Japanese discretion and love of commercial pomp have made the typical Japanese hotel a combination of a well-run Holiday Inn, Disneyland, and an upscale adult toy store. Some are quite gaudy on the outside, while many are distinguishable from the outside only by the reduced number and size of windows facing the street. Some of the innovations that might be seen:

 Multiple separate entrance and exit points, to reduce the chance of running into someone you know.

 Automated key dispensers with visual displays of the rooms. When a room is paid for, the display goes dark and the key is dropped into a snack-machine style slot.

 Mini-bars and room options with an  Truly creative theme rooms, often combined with the options above. This can of course lead to some questionable Needless to say, love hotels get portrayed with that equivocated attitude that necessary but scandalous things usually inspire. For that reason, the Yakuza sometimes has a habit of camping outside the entrances with cameras, then demanding payment to keep the pictures confined.

  The OVA episode of  In one episode of    In an episode of  Episode 3 of  In the anime  In the last episode of  In  In  Used quite frequently in the OVA  When Kagetora and Beni run away from Beni's father in  In the second season of  For secrecy/ Takamura Mamoru from  In Juzo Itami's  In the final  In one chapter of  In  In  In  A major motif in  Toward the end of the second  In  In  In  A French graphic novel by  In  In  There's a cute scene in  In  In the Chilean movie  Both versions of   In  In  The book  Plenty of these turn up in  A Western example on  The adventure "Colors of Sacrifice" for the  In  As mentioned above, in  And no one could forget the   In    In  Western Animation example: In  A  