A plot trope that involves a fantastic version of the most basic conflicts: Man vs. Beast.

in a world where humanity is terrorized by a race of nigh invulnerable behemoths. Humanity is at a disadvantage, but at some point, they discover their enemies' weakness, and now have a fighting chance. And thus begins the tale of their struggle.

The most basic form of this is that a certain organization is in charge of recruiting people and equipping them with a specific set of equipment and/or skills vital to exploiting the weaknesses of the monsters they are fighting. In cases where there is a masquerade, their purpose is to uphold it by preventing muggles from discovering the existence of such monsters.

The organization is usually the only one of its kind, but within a global reach there will often be "branches." Size and scope also vary. They can be as large and publicized as the military, but an oddly small organization or a small the squad/five-man band would also do.

There usually isn't a prerequisite for its recruits; as long as they can fight, they can join. In verses that rely on applied phlebotinum, compatibilty with the phlebotinum is the only requirement, and you usually cannot refuse to join them, especially if compatible people are rare.

The monsters are usually characterized by being non-sentient beasts that devour or destroy humans or resources which make them a direct threat. Sometimes though, they are sentient but always chaotic evil with little regard for self-preservation. Whatever their flavor, they're out to multiply and destroy, and our heroes' job is to stop them from doing so.

The monster's origin usually vary from being simply aliens (or angels & demons or robots & golems); to coming from a single hellgate; to being a result of creating life gone horribly wrong; to being a mutant strain of an existing lifeform ; or a beastly sort of henchmen race created by the big bad; to simply just popping out of nowhere. Whatever their origin. There will already be quite a lot of them already by the time the story kicks in.

Whatever their origin, they will always be nigh invulnerable (or just made of iron) or have healing factor which makes them hard to kill. This doesn't mean they are invincible though. These monsters usually have an achilles' heel — usually in the form of applied phlebotinum that is the only thing that can harm them (which our organization would exploit as weapons), or a certain weak point in their body, which is usually a core placed in a strategic part of its body.

This trope has two common variations:

  Remember, for the trope to count:

 There must be an organization, or at the very least a team. Solo examples count if they have a group backing them, or at least, it is implied they have offscreen members.

 The monsters must be impersonal "forces of nature" — as in, like the  The monsters may or may not have a weakness. Their Within the subtropes, there is the common element of "being imprisoned". Whether by a literal wall (like in Attack on Titan or God Eater Burst) or by humanity being forced to live in citadel cities (like in The Matrix or Strike Witches) due to relentless attacks by the monsters. The plot will usually involve the organization finding ways for humanity to live outside these "walls" and have character dream about how the world is just awesome and that they and everyone else need to see it.

Subtrope of the hunter. sister trope to bug war, which is about humanity in general fighting big creepy-crawlies or horde of alien locusts, and may or may not employ this trope. Compare who you gonna call?, for an organization that tackles the supernatural in general in an otherwise normal world. See also the men in black, an organization tasked with upholding the masquerade.

