A Five-Token Band consists of characters from very obviously different backgrounds and ethnic groups, but rather than being assembled disparately they all happen to live in the same area, regardless of how diverse the town should be. In school-centered shows and media, the "different backgrounds" may also include different social groups, hobbies, or cliques (ex. nerds, artists, jocks). Typically, this is designed for one of two purposes:

 To bring diversity to a cast for the sake of mass market appeal,  To deliver The first type is more likely to be benign than the second. The second may be handled poorly.

The multinational team will often have a reason for the cast's diversity, whereas the Five-Token Band may often be diverse for the sake of being diverse. This is not to say that a multinational team is immune to tokenism or stereotype — it is simply a different breed of trope.

Note that in real life, people often do have extremely diverse backgrounds. There really are Jewish Black Brits, or half-Polish half-Pakistani Polish-speaking Americans, or even lesbian, Malaysian-born Chinese Australians. It is not egregious to include such characters, as that merely reflects the diversity of the real world. When the diversity is shown in a way that is absurdly ham-fisted, too stereotypical or formulaic, or ignorantly written, however, that may be a problem.

Despite the emphasis on racial harmony, in this trope the Caucasian, blond, All-American male is all too often the leader, or conversely, the complainer. Other characters may also end up more as stereotypes than people. However, the Five-Token Band is usually created with no malicious intentions, and indeed, many of the bands listed below have well-developed characters or are from well-written shows.

The most common variant of a Five-Token Band, especially in the nineties, will go as followed:

     Other white (or more recently, Hispanic) male. Tends to be  Occasionally a token disabled character in a wheelchair.

 A Compare the more economical token trio, and the villainous counterpart, equal-opportunity evil. If it's people with power, it's likely a cosmopolitan council. Compare/contrast multinational team. See also: token minority (duh).

