wherever the empire is, you'll always find La Resistance: A ragtag bunch of misfits using the the power of friendship to fight against a tyrannical rule, often to help put the government in exile back into power. Always underdogs, they fight using guerrilla warfare and by raising the rabble of the people by revealing unpleasant truths about the empire they've been trying to hide, causing the oppressed peoples to shake off the yokes of their tyrant rulers.

Inevitably, the hero will join La Resistance while the battle is already underway, and will grow to become a great champion in the fight against the empire. Alternatively, La Resistance will be utterly incompetent and little more than an annoyance until the hero gets in there and shows them how it's done. Sometimes their inner dissensions render them nearly unable to get anything done. In an interesting twist, if the resistance is as unscrupulous as the empire, then the hero will end up doing a bit of conspiracy redemption or forming a third faction.

People rarely like having it pointed out that these groups are terrorists from the point of view of anyone who disagrees with them and innocent bystanders who may get caught up in the crossfire of said conflicts.

hollywood in general portrays resistance fighters sympathetically because America's revolutionary history has created romantic notions about rebels. In real life, most revolutions are brutal affairs and the new government is often worse than the old. Alternatively, La Resistance may represent the last remnants of the reactionary or counter-revolutionary cronies of the old regime fighting against the Revolutionary Progressive Forces.

When La Resistance form the main ensemble of the show, or one of them, they'll frequently exhibit a mix of characters similar to the squad. However, they'll usually have sneakier methods, they tend to be more morally pragmatic and ruthless than most squads, and in series like Battlestar Galactica members becoming shell shocked seniors. Expect at least one member of La Resistance to be the mole, or a homegrown les collaborateurs sabotaging their efforts from the inside. La Resistance may even be defeated without the assistance of its enemy: when the only thing uniting it is opposition to the empire, they may end up struggling together thanks to some point of ideology (generally portrayed stupid) or method (generally portrayed as worthwhile).

Eventually, La Resistance will either die out, or grow into the alliance as it gains power, allies, and sympathizers. This trope usually overlaps with the revolution will not be vilified. For the darker and edgier version, see the revolution will not be civilized.

For the villainous equivalent, see the remnant. For the opposite of La Resistance, see les collaborateurs. Sometimes La Resistance may not be heroes but villains, as happens in an enemy civil war. When La Resistance is heroic, but nevertheless uses terrorism, see your terrorists are our freedom fighters. This may be deliberately ironic, perhaps inviting a "we are not so different" moment. Or, the author might simply assume that the audience will always sympathize with rebel protagonists against the empire, therefore moral justification of the rebellion is unnecessary and the rebels can get away with whatever is expedient. This could be averted if the evil empire really is evil and the rebels exercise chivalry and restraint.

Usually led by a rebel leader and armed via vehicular turnabout. Not to be confused with the first-person shooter series, Resistance. Or with WWE's French-Canadian foreign wrestling heel tag team "La Résistance".

    