

So you got yourself a character in a series who's a bit of a lone wolf. They fight (and even win) their own battles, they reject being a part of the hero's group, and they may even rebuff their friendliness. More importantly, they may even enjoy being by themselves no matter what society tells they otherwise.

And later on in the series, the character is now the newest member of the band of friends. How so? There could be two common reasons for this sudden character development. One, it could be that they got tired of being alone for a very long time considering that there are heavy consequences of being a loner for too long. They may have realized they'elong for companionship after all, despite being unfairly mistreated for being different. Another could be that they may have been inspired by the all-loving hero's heartwarming speech about the power of friendship or that the character learns an aesop about accepting others' friendships even if they were initially dismissive of them.

Sometimes, this trope can play the character in two ways. One, they still retain their introverted characteristics, but is still considered a loyal teammate/friend to the group. Two, they are a permanent member of the team and show no hint of introversion.

Note that this trope doesn't always have be about a character joining the hero's group. It can apply to the protagonist of the series, too, particularly the anti-hero. A group of characters will become drawn by the hero without them knowing it and they will be dismissive at first, but later on, they accept them into their life.

This is usually part of the introduction for the lancer, or the sixth ranger, or a sixth ranger that eventually evolves into the lancer.

Compare default to good which is mainly about choosing an alignment in a setting of black and white morality. Compare can't live with them, can't live without them if the character grows accustomed to another character's presence. loony friends improve your personality may enforce this trope. Related to friendless background.

