Two characters are escaping from something. One of them falls down, breaks a leg and says "Leave me, i will only slow you down". The other one says, "i won't leave without you!" and takes his wounded friend with him. Possibly even requiring, as soon as they reach some degree of safety, that the wounded character gets evacuated first.

In more hard-pressed situations, the character must stand over the fallen friend and fight off enemies, all the way up to the grim last stand. In case of close comrades, such as blood brothers, or beloved commanders, this may be done even if the fallen friend is dead and not just wounded, and the heat of battle may make it impossible to tell whether the fallen character had just been wounded or had died. And if the dead character has royal blood or blue blood, this may have a grim necessity: they need to be able to prove that the character died to ensure that the succession goes smoothly in time of crisis.

This trope is often used to generate drama in a situation that calls for a heroic sacrifice. See shoot the dog.

Can lead to antagonist in mourning when the characters had been hostile to each other before. Extra points if they had just become fire-forged friends.

genre savvy villains will exploit this rule to great effect by wounding their enemies, thereby pinning or slowing down their comrades.

If it really is impossible, the wounded soldier may plead for death rather than just being left.

On the other hand, if the wounded soldier can prevent the enemies from chasing his comrades, you shall not pass may justify leaving him. The soldier will probably insist on volunteering despite his comrades' protests.

When they must bring news back, the characters who stay behind often do it to buy the others time to get away. Those who must go on may find it hard to flee while others fight, but generally their sense of duty is up to it.

In many ways this is truth in television, although without the dramatic clichés. Many armed forces units, especially the U.S. Navy SEALs and U.S. Army Rangers, pride themselves on never abandoning a wounded or dead soldier. Others, like the SAS, make a rule to leave wounded men for the medics.

Often portrayed as a subtrope of honor before reason. In real life there is a perfectly cold-blooded reason to still do this: people are expensive and difficult to train and replace. Better (and cheaper) the guy with potentially years of experience spends some time in a hospital then you stick some neophyte right out of a rushed training course in to replace him.

Has nothing to do with no child left behind.