This mission is important. The fate of the battle, nay, the war, nay, the entire world rests on the outcome. Who has the capability to stick it out, to īgive the good guys the victory they desperately need? This calls for a special team. The group of experienced, highly skilled, professional, team-oriented experts? Not them. The assorted group of ex-con lowlife inexperienced jerkasses who are trying to off their commander when they aren't trying to kill each other? Yeah, them.

 Despite their flaws, they're still the best at what they do. See  They're the best team  In case the mission fails, they're  Sending in more experienced/skilled/powerful teams would have drawn too much attention. Indeed, the better-suited teams may be deliberately deployed elsewhere to distract from them.

 More powerful teams would not  The authorities haven't actually noticed (or  There was a better first choice that DID get sent, but  They need them to do something untoward or outright illegal, and they know these folks will keep quiet about it.

 They're the only ones  They're random survivors of some apocalyptic event who more or less stumble across each other.

 The  Your basic Ragtag Bunch Of Misfits consists of a hero, a sidekick, a big guy, a smart guy, an old guy, a young guy, and a funny guy - But you can call them the magnificent seven samurai. Only distinctly less magnificent.

Of course, the Ragtag Bunch of Misfits will eventually have a misfit mobilization moment to get their act together and win the day. Most often it produces casualties: typically, the guy forced to go on the mission despite being the convicted innocent, or the officer and a gentleman who's been stodgy and uptight just before making a heroic sacrifice.

If the characters were not forced on the team — condemned contestant, boxed crook — they often join to be lonely together. to contrast their diversity, their enemies will likely be all homogenous in one way, typically by being highly collaborative professionals.

Compare with character magnetic team and hitchhiker heroes.

In the world of sports, this trope counts double. Last year's Super Bowl champions don't stand a chance against a random group of ex-cons, couch potatoes, and farm animals, with improvised training, who are almost guaranteed to pull out a last-minute win.

Also where the trope is shown in the context of sports, you will typically find a three-game arc of progress. In the first game, it's Murphy's Law. The game is a comedy of errors for our ragtag gang of misfits, and they lose. Bad. Ridiculously bad. In the second game, the team sees notable improvement; usually they'll play well enough, only to lose at the last minute. Occasionally, they might even win on a freak play. By the third game, however, everyone has clicked and is playing at the top of their game. From that point on, it's all smooth sailing until The Big Game. (Often times, their opponent in The Big Game will be the same team that blew them out in the first game, just as a ways to show how far they've come.)

See also army of thieves and whores for when this trope is magnified to the size of an army.

       