

One of the first choices any writer has to make is how many protagonists will lead the narrative. Believe it or not, that number matters. Too many, and you can barely get attached to anyone, just one and you'll never believe the author would kill them off.

So, which is the lucky number for ensembles?

Let's start at one and work our way up. Lone protagonists are not some embryonic proto-cast that contains the traits of all Ensembles past and present, but rather has complete freedom to be whoever is needed for the story. Let's repeat that: lone. While a one man hero doesn't have to be an antisocial loner, they are very independent no matter what kind of character they are. Even the wimpy action survivor is at least able to survive. Interestingly, the best lone heroes make up for a lack of permanent cast with a varied supporting (though temporary) cast and (hopefully) some internal struggles to add depth. The Man vs. Man type of dramatic struggle is common for the lone hero. Needless to say they are also invariably the hero (well, let's say protagonist to hedge our bets). Though that's kind of a "Duh" statement, read on.

 From there the duos are an even split between two traits in terms of body, mind, or temperament (usually all three). One is the the brawn to the other's brains; one is emotional and fiery while the other is more coldly analytical; one is by-the-book while the other feels rules should be flexible. The duo implies a certain level of equality; it's entirely possible for both to "share the billing" and be equal heroes. They'll likely be heterosexual life-partners, but if they happen to be different genders, it's practically a law there'll eventually be unresolved sexual tension (unless, of course, they are a brother-sister team). If this sexual tension is resolved, then you have a battle couple (cue the shipping). When the equality goes away, you have a different dynamic, the hero and their side kick or love interest. These duos are different in that the hero often serves as a mentor to the sidekick or protector to the love interest. It's unlikely for the sidekick to graduate from the role to a true equal.

 When you get to Power Trios the different splits get more interesting. The personalities divide into three, not so much dividing the red and blue oni as creating a "balance" personality wholecloth. Note that any of them can be the lead hero. If the division is between physical and mental, it doesn't get degraded, but augmented with a balanced character, a character to mediate the previous pair. If combat is involved, you get the mighty glacier, jack of all stats, and a fragile speedster and/or glass cannon. Interestingly, from Trio on down you start seeing the above archetypes merge into things like genius bruiser. It's worth noting that from here on out a girl being in the group gets logistically easier and much more common. The quartet is a challenge: just enough people for things to get convoluted, but not enough to lose track of anyone. The four-temperament ensemble divides the red and blue oni in half again: the Red Oni splits into sanguine and choleric, and the Blue Oni into phlegmatic and melancholic. Alternatively, the characters can be split into a four philosophy ensemble in which the characters have different viewpoints and philosophies, rather than personalities, which interact as they face problems and have to reconcile their differences to come to agreement.

 The Five-Man Band and anything beyond that point tends to vary quite widely in makeup, as the personality and physical traits by this point can be pretty arbitrarily mixed and matched without worrying about maintaining a "balance" in the cast. Nonetheless, all have the base five-man band structure with one or more (sometimes many more) additions from the "auxiliary" list, like plucky comic relief or tagalong kid, much like a core Three Plus Two cast of characters results in a five-man band. Typically, the hero stops being a label and becomes a physically distinct character type that leads the ensemble's members. It's quite common for a group of five to consist of two trios (and an optional extra), often based on gender - these may or may not conform to the three faces of adam and the three faces of eve. The five-man band is one of the tropes of legend, probably because it has enough room for all four temperaments to be split between the characters in new and interesting ways. (Note that any five-man band can be "upgraded" by way of a sixth ranger.)

 Beyond five, there are no hard and fast rules for the cast as a whole. However, even with loads and loads of characters, the cast members can be broken down into a geodesic cast or a set of cast herds, each iteration of which usually follows one of the archetypes listed above. Individual characters may belong to a single group only, or they may belong to several, with their role sometimes changing depending on which group they're interacting with.

See also how to gather characters and player character calculus for the video game counterpart.

This list primarily applies to gaming and action/adventure tales:

See also:

        There's also a set of the above for all girl casts:

    And we also have an evil version of some of the above:

     