A personality aspect that comes up in just about any ensemble. Their personality is based on getting the others to recognize that there are more things at stake than their personal vendettas. Especially if the team is starting to become knight templar or if any individual becomes a well-intentioned extremist, this is the person who will argue and fight against the justification of "i did what i had to do." Quite often The Heart character will also be an all-loving hero, where they go out of their way to help all of the little people.

Within the ensemble this character will most often be merged with the role of the chick. They are a good fit; since The Chick is usually a non-action character, having personality traits of The Heart will give them more to do. Especially if the team is always at each other's throats. For the same reason, The Heart can also be the hero (in the case of the magnetic hero) or the leader as their leadership keeps them from falling apart. May be part of the command roster.

The character whose death or loss is most likely to trigger losing the team spirit (and sometimes for whom everyone on the team moves heaven and earth). Hey, heart is an awesome power, right?

Due to their usual relative introversion, and tendencies towards pacifism (whether technical or actual) this character is sadly often c-list fodder and a prime target for a single-character (rather than the entire show) version of the firefly effect. Many series will start out with a Heart character, but the writers will begin to view them as boring and impossible to write for, so they end up being either put on a bus/kept out of focus at best, or character death at worst. This also tends to happen when studio executives want to replace the character with a more talented or physically attractive character, in an attempt to boost ratings.

Given that said characters are usually sweet types, this also tends to seriously anger a certain portion of the fanbase, but because the studio executives care more about ratings than they do about upsetting what is normally a minority, the character will stay dead. If fan outrage is sufficiently vocal, and the executives haven't managed to completely alienate the actor, then the character may come back periodically as a ghost or a clone.

Compare the face who does the talking on the team. See also restored my faith in humanity and morality chain. Compare the conscience, token good teammate. Not to be confused with what kind of lame power is heart, anyway? or heart is an awesome power though this trope often overlaps with them. Contrast with lack of empathy.

