Every team needs a leader. Be it the five-man band, five-bad band, the badass crew, the badass army, to the ragtag bunch of misfits, and a six student clique, they all have one.

When push comes to shove, there's gotta be someone that stands up, takes charge, and makes a decision. Even if it goes unsaid, it's usually obvious to everyone who's calling the shots. The de facto leader does it out of necessity or their personality type. The De Jure leader is officially agreed upon, and may hold the title or rank.

Leaders in fiction typically come in four flavors, with of course some leeway and overlap.

The Mastermind: They often assemble their team for a specific purpose, and have clear goals in mind from the beginning. They rely on their smarts and ability to be one step ahead of their competition. They are masters of manipulation and tactics. Lighter versions are typically the smart guy, the strategist, or a guile hero. Darker versions are usually evil geniuses or the big bad (the Leader's evil counterpart in the five-bad band). They tend to work from the behind the scenes but be careful as authority equals asskicking may still be in effect.

Levelheaded: The most practical, experienced, mature, or neutral member of the group. They are the most naturally qualified to take the responsibility of the team on their shoulders and driven by either a sense of caring towards their teammates or a sense of duty towards their goals. Most likely of the types to suffer from the chains of commanding. An effective levelheaded leader is usually the captain, but they may have to fend off persistent dissenters and other loose cannons to maintain order. Can either command from homebase or act as field leader. They prefer to have a plan worked out, but are willing and able to act when the time comes regardless.

Headstrong: The most outspoken and outgoing members. being so determined they often lead their team both in and out of trouble, and inspire the team to work through problems. Often noted for their bravery. Character development usually dictates that they take on more levelheaded leader traits as time goes on and they learn the difference between courage and recklessness. Tends to overlap with charismatic leader and are almost always on the front lines.Charismatic: the face of the team, either because they're the most feared, most skilled, most loved and respected, chosen by destiny, or are the most personally invested in the team's goals. In contrast to type I's, their personality is what brings, and keeps, the team together. At an impasse, everyone else is willing to agree to what they want to do and won't argue. The strongest type fours are the core of their group, weaker ones are mascots or figureheads. May overlap with or evolve into any of the other three types.

See also the chains of commanding, the sliding scale of leadership responsibility, still the leader, ordered apology, and badass in charge. Compare the captain, only sane man, and both the big good and big bad. Usually the hero is the leader, but not always. Similarly, the Leader is not always, nor always interested in being, the hero.

