This is the guy in the five-man band whose focus is on intellectual pursuits. This is the team member who will always be prepared, sometimes crazy-prepared. They will be at the computer doing rapid-fire typing. Expect some fancy talk and techno babble from this character. Because their role is about ideas, plans, and being mission control, they often leave the action stuff to the others.Physically they are usually short and wear glasses. They may even be a child prodigy. The Smart Guy is sometimes written as mousey and withdrawn. If not antisocial, at least non-social, sliding into tv genius. Can be expected to play a mean game of chess. weak, but skilled is definitely not out of the question, either.

Sometimes the Smart Guy is more street savvy then they appear. If this is the case it usually makes The Smart Guy physically as well as mentally capable. This is the path of the badass bookworm. They remain firmly planted as the Smart Guy, but are just as ready to fight as everyone else. The results are often impressive, and usually have the advantage of surprise. Who expects the little guy with glasses to be an asskicker?

Powers and skills common to the smart guy include:

 In modern or sci-fi settings, The Smart Guy often has great skill with technology and engineering, in order to build and repair devices for  In settings where  In fantasy settings, he'll usually be  In a  Some incarnations have His knowledge will allow him to find enemy weaknesses and to serve as mr. exposition in order to explain plot points to the less intelligent members of the team (and the audience).

The Smart Guy archetype is often unfairly vilified in shows where dumb is good. Other times, he's not so much the Smart Guy as the Smartass Guy. The Smartass Guy will occur in a team with a big smart guy. The team doesn't need another brainy guy so much, and since Big Smart Guys tend to be gentle giants, adding a deadpan snarker just seems natural.

In recent years, as casts have become more gender-balanced, the smart girl is the one most likely to swap genders. Since the character type is outwardly sexless and non-masculine, turning them into The Smart Girl is not that big a stretch. Mousey, shy and withdrawn work equally well on female characters, and can sometimes be appealing (see hot librarian and nerds are sexy). When used in this way, she's usually much less girly than the chick (see wrench wench). In a fantasy setting, she's often the black mage, or sometimes the white mage.

Because shorter means smarter, the smart guy may be a often a teen genius and can overlap with tagalong kid. This will lead to a little guy, big buddy duo with the big guy, especially because their contrast doesn't lead to fights as often as the hero and the lancer will. Alternatively he can overlap with the mentor as a miniature senior citizen. Some teams even replace having a smart guy with having a small guy for the visual contrast with the rest of the team even if he isn't particularly more intelligent.

In an ensemble cast, the Smart Guy is usually the last character to have a love interest if they even bother to give him one at all. He may or may not be asexual. He may also explicitly be said to have no luck with women (we are frequently showed just one instance of this as a pretext to at least answer the question and to completely avoid the romance issue afterwards) and that's often cruelly played for laughs, especially when the Smart Guy's feelings are unrequited. When present, the shoehorned love interest character is often little more than an uninspired female version of himself (a sterotypical Nerd Girl variant), or close to it. Often, this relationship does not last for a number of reasons (a convientent pretext for the smart guy to avoid future romances) or the love interest falls victim to either chuck cunningham syndrome or the cartwright curse. Invariably, because smart guys are relatively difficult to write for without relying on tropes and cliches, this allows writers to avoid having to develop the Smart Guy character beyond his basic fuctional role.

If there's a robot buddy on the team, he's usually The Smart Guy.

If you're looking for his evil counterpart in the five-bad band, it's the evil genius.

Oh, and he's also part of the four-man band in a comedy ensemble.

Not to be confused with the series Smart Guy.

      