

A group of people formed up into a team, whose members are split along particular roles and possess skills which complement one another and contribute to the entire group in their own unique way. Many of the most common team roles are listed under the index team. The Team may or may not have an actual name of its own.

Most importantly, the Team has to have teamwork as its basic modus operandi; that is, they would seek to tackle any problems that any of their group encounters together, unless circumstances dictate otherwise (e.g. one of them has been ambushed while away from the others, or the problem involves participating in an official competition of one-on-one matches).

They can sometimes be a ragtag bunch of misfits. They may eventually become a fellowship of true companions, if they don't start as one in the first place.

The roles typically hit most of the archetypes of the five-man band but without numerical or gender restrictions. There may be two or more characters holding the same "role", though often in different ways; a team may for example have an omnidisciplinary scientist-slash-gadgeteer genius as the tech-savvy smart guy and the strategist-slash-the chessmaster as the tactics/manipulation-savvy smart guy. Likewise, you may have two Big Guys, one being a long-range heavy-weapons specialist with a mean haymaker if you come up close, and the other being a big freaking sword-wielding close-quarters bruiser; or they're a battle couple duo, with the female half being possibly a case of cute bruiser and/or muscles are meaningless (unless amazonian beauty is in play), and their respective fighting styles follow some sort of a "masculine vs. feminine" contrast (and not necessarily with the "right" sex).

This is the super trope to power trio, five-man band, five-bad band and the magnificent seven samurai. If it's a military group, it's either the squad or a command roster. If enough members are legitimately badass, it may also be a badass crew. They can also be a dream team. Compare and contrast band of brothers and true companions. See also cast calculus for typical breakdowns.

