

The Team Benefactor is the member of the team who allows the adventure to continue by supplying some sort of resource they (and only they) have access to rather than their own talents (unless said talents are something very narrow). The resource in question might be;

 Money (Either covering the group's expenses as they travel or providing a large sum of money to fund the trip).

 Knowledge of what they're specifically dealing with (characters who provide this are often  Being  Have something special about them (e.g. being of a given lineage needed to enter their ancestor's tomb or meeting the  Just own a means of transport which the group need to make use of.

 Have some sort of connection to someone who fits one of the above, who agrees to help on the condition that this character can travel with the group (e.g. the representative of a company who's funding an expedition or the son of a king who lent the group a ship).

This trope is a good way to justify the friend nobody likes, since it allows the writer to include a character that is at odds with the rest but they can't get rid of. Even if they're not, it's likely that what they provide is the only thing they can provide (at first), making them the load. The expertise variant is the most likely to avoid this, since their knowledge might allow them to double as the medic or a gadgeteer genius even if they aren't a badass bookworm.

Characters who provide money might be an example of uncle pennybags or spoiled sweet. A character with some sort of destiny in this position might be the chosen zero if they don't provide anything but their status as such. A character who merely gives the heroes what they need and sends them on their way (without joining them) is some form of big good rather than this trope. If this character joins the group as the sixth ranger then they might be a mysterious backer or an anonymous benefactor. They often appear in a caper crew. Compare plot tailored to the party where it is contrived so each character can overcome an obstacle. See also crimefighting with cash (for when this trope is a superpower).

 Dryden Fassa in   In  Angel acted in this capacity when he was with the Champions. He funded the group as well as being on the team. He also funded and led   The  Kate Bishop (the Hawkeye of  R. J. Brande funded the  Reed Richards is this to the   The mysterious "Fourth Man" of  This is how Steve Dayton AKA Mento got involved with the  Ruben in    Villainous example; The Neimodian race from   Eduardo Saverin in  In  Gandalf has shades of this in both  Toad from Kenneth Grahame's  The protagonist (a journalist) of  In  In the  In  In season two of  A BBC adaptation of   In  In the metagame of  In  In  In the  In  King Hayden from Frelia in  Batman in  While by no means useless in other regards, Asami provides Team Avatar with airships, cars, boats or whatever else they may need throughout 