

Common subtype of the five-man band composed by starting with a power trio and adding some form of duo or a pair of extra rangers. While the five characters will generally still fit into some variation on the five-man band archetypes, three of the characters will get decidedly more play.

In terms of plot, the core trio will generally have a relationship which pre-exists their introduction, while the remaining members are newcomers. Common archetypes for the non-core members include the ace and the old master. Surprisingly, the naïve newcomer is rarely one of the peripheral duo (as naïve newcomer characters are usually given a more central role), but he can be a member of the core trio.

Even if the relationship between the core trio is not pre-existing, their bond will be immediate and close. You will find them interacting "off the clock" in a way you are less likely to see with the peripheral characters.

The leader is liable to be a member of the core trio, but if he is not, expect the dominant member of the trio to be the lancer, and expect serious rivalry between him and the leader.

When the core trio works for heroes r us, the setup will often involve the trio's higher-ups assigning two new members to a long-standing team because they have somehow overlooked the fact that this would cause serious friction. The band may alternatively be formed by the core trio absorbing another group, either rivals with a common goal or enemies making a heel-face turn.

Plots involving the power of friendship will focus on the core trio, while plots about teamwork will include the whole band. The two peripheral members may even duck out (via heroic sacrifice) before the grand finale.

The major advantage of this setup is that it covers the broad range of character types which makes the five-man band a popular ensemble, but by relegating two members to the periphery, it prevents spreading the audience's time too thin, as is often a difficulty with large ensembles.

See also cast calculus.

