

There's this one guy or girl in the team that stands out from the other team members. They stand out because of their faith or their religious values. While many of the team members may be atheists or agnostics, or at least haven't given much thought to religion, this team member is devoted to their faith.

Regardless of whether they serve one god, or multiple gods, or some divine cosmic energy, their beliefs have defined the way they see the world and the way they respond to any given situation. This may manifest in a thou shalt not kill code, or they may be a violent, psychotic character who uses their faith to justify their actions. Whatever the case, this causes the character to stand out from the other characters due to their faith. If they are militant, expect them to be a badass preacher, or a technical pacifist.

If they are Christian, they will almost invariably be catholic. Unless they're wacky or hypocritical, in which case they'll be protestant.

Quite often the token good teammate, although psychotic examples could qualify for token evil teammate. May also be the token wholesome.

At their worst, a Token Religious Teammate is stupid good or lawful stupid.

Contrast with secular hero.

  Seikai, one of the   Yukariko of the  In the American official  For the Death Scythes in  Subverted in  Nightcrawler from  Wolfsbane in  The title character in  Victor Mancha of the  Shizune from   In  In   Holly Little from   Mad Max has two highway patrolmen chasing a maniac. After a crash one starts cursing and the other says that he doesn't have to "... work with a blasphemer."

 In   Dr Elizabeth Shaw in  Relg in the  Constable Visit-The-Infidel-With-Explanatory-Pamphlets is this for the Watch in  While in the  April in   Robyn Mathers from  In the  Lourdes from  Zhaan from  Shepherd Derrial Book from  In   Hershel from  Shirley from   In  In the BBC's  On  Surprisingly for an RPG on a board that usually frowns on religious discussion,  In  William McCall from  Leliana from   Vanilla H from    Fletcher Emerson (AKA Pardus) is the only overtly religious member of  Reverend Theo Fobius in  Kurloz Makara, to the Pre-Scratch Trolls, in  In  Phase of Team Kimba, and Loophole of the Whitman Lit Chix. They even have a talk about their faith in a Loophole story, with Phase revealing that he is having a crisis of faith since he has lost everything: his family, his old friends, his wealth and power and protection, his long-held anti-mutant beliefs, his identity, and even his gender.

  On  Tim in  Beyal in 