One example of the action hero. With the emphasis on one.

You know this guy, because you have seen him a thousand times. He has the lead role in almost every action movie and video game and, like bruce willis or will smith, has a single role that he repeats over and over again.

Unlike the featureless protagonist, he does have fixed attributes, and they are usually the same:

 Male.

 Almost always American (and almost always Caucasian at that. And if not,  Born to blue-collar parents.

 Buzz-cut, fade, bald, or fauxhawk (if the story is set after 2000) black or dark brown hair.  And shaved, usually with  Usually a former soldier or police officer, very rarely in active service.

 Uses  Almost always uses   Chances are good his name is a monosyllabic simple name like Frank, Jim, Jack or John.

 Has a dead relative, a dead friend or is only in the action hero business because he has to  Has no respect for authority, but his boss secretly admires him for this trait.

 A tendency to use  Usually  Typically drives a This character has become immensely popular as the protagonist in video games in recent years. The difference from a featureless protagonist is that those characters are left without real characterization to let the player project their own ideas onto the character, while the Action Genre Hero Guy follows a very specific set of traits as listed above.

If you can remember a character's name, he is probably not an example.

Compare a space marine is you. For a common alternative, see the ahnold.

 Jake Sully from  Justin Timberlake's character Will in   Most of  Most of the film characters played by     G. Callen from  Dean Winchester from  Jack Shepard from  The topic of  Chris Redfield from the  And Alex Shepherd from  Dan Marshall from  The default Commander Shepard from  Jimmy Hopkins from  Both Mercury and Jacknife from  Nathan Hale from  Preston Marlowe from  Solid Snake from the  Galen Marek/"Starkiller," the protagonist from  Nathan Drake from  Jet Brody of   Despite his inclusion in the above article, and his name being as nondescript as John or Jack in his native Serbian,  Subverted in  Sergeant John Forge in  John "Soap" MacTavish in the  Sam Fisher from the   William Carter of 