The Enfant Terrible is an adorable child. An angel, one might say, with a cherubic face. One just wants to pick them up and hug them.

Pity they're psychopaths. An Enfant Terrible knows people think they're cute, and will use that to their advantage. When one person finds out, said hero usually has a hard time convincing others, who will turn on them for even suggesting such a thing about the poor, poor child.

An Enfant Terrible may be supernatural, or simply a child born without a conscience. They may also be an evil orphan.

A form of the devil in plain sight. Might overlap with girl scouts are evil, if they do more than just sell you cookies, and with kids are cruel, if the kid's behaviour also transpires in his relationship to other children. Akin to the creepy child, except Enfants Terribles are truly dangerous and vicious at heart, whereas a creepy child isn't necessarily psychopathic or evil.

Of course, such a character almost always plays the wouldn't hurt a child and children are innocent cards to get away with their actions, which almost always works—for a while. They're unlikely to be directly killed by any heroic character in the story, but they have a habit of becoming self disposing villains.

Virtually defenseless in a direct physical battle and hindered by their undeveloped bodies, Enfants Terribles with no super powers are usually obliged to operate by proxy. Thus, corruption by a minor is often their favourite technique to get what they want.

sub-trope of superior successor (assuming it's unusual).

See also undead child for a common subtype. Often the nemesis of a kid hero. Not related to child soldier but the two can overlap.

Compare tykebomb, little miss badass, cute is evil, fetus terrible, cute and psycho and face of an angel, mind of a demon. Contrast with psychopathic manchild, where a teen-aged or already grown psycho acts like a child. Contrast goo goo godlike, in which the child is not evil, just playful and way too powerful.

Not to be confused with les enfants terribles.

No real life examples, please! It is sufficient to say that psychopathy manifests itself in very young age, and there is some truth in television in this trope.

