By using acquired wealth, knowledge, and skills (often including outright bribery), a merchant or other capitalist character becomes a member of society's ruling class. Unlike in one nation under copyright, the Merchant Prince doesn't necessarily own outright the society he rules, or even run a mega corp.; he may, in fact, be only the "first among equals" among many competing merchants. However, this usually doesn't keep him from trying to run the government like he would his business.

Note that to qualify for this trope, a merchant must rise to power as a consequence of his own power and wealth. A merchant who inherits political power because he was already the rightful heir to the throne doesn't count, as he would have gotten that throne regardless of his mercantile activities. A self-made man who becomes royalty by being wealthy and renowned enough to marry the king's only daughter would count, however.

Generally, a merchant city will be ruled by one of these, or by a council of them modeled after those of Renaissance Italy. Though not required for the trope, some may operate (at least) one mega corp..

A particularly successful intrepid merchant often "retires" to become one of these. In more modern settings, expect a lot of these to also be corrupt corporate executives. Some video games based on the an entrepreneur is you model may have becoming one as the player's goal.

Not to be confused with The Merchant Princes Series, which, despite the name, doesn't really feature the trope.

 Meiden Fassa, father of  In  Hutts are a race of gangsters in the  In the first  Prince William of Ceta in  Nicholas van Rijn, from  In the  The Vattas of  In  In the  In Alfred Bester's  In Norman Spinrad's  Elihu Willsson, the "Czar of Poisonville" in  In  Xaro Xhoan Daxos in  The Ferengi in  "Jock" Ewing from  In   The Third Imperium in    The  The  In  In  In  Much like  CEO Nwabudike Morgan in  The leaders of Goblin society in  An option in  In  The leader of the Daggerfall Covenant in  As noted above, many cities in Italy were ruled by merchant princes at some point or another. The foremost example was Venice, a republic ruled by a Doge who was elected from the ranks of the Senate for life and assisted for much of the city's history by a secretive Council of Ten. Its chief rival, Genoa, was also ruled under a similar system.

 A modern example: the oligarchs of  J.P. Morgan, the American philanthropist and financier. Morgan's skills in business not only transformed the economy, but also managed to use his influence to offset  Two very prominent families have done this in the United States, the Kennedys (who obviously produced  Overseas Chinese have a number of these. Which makes sense. Guess which language the word 