They've got little money, and lots of talent (or not). Being an artist isn't a career with steady pay, and art supplies are expensive. Artists that haven't quite reached commercial success (or haven't gotten picked up by a wealthy patron) often live poorly.

Due to several influential artists having historically been starving artists, the inherent dramatic potential of being talented but cash-deprived, and the appeal of living a life without material possessions, these portrayals are often quite romantic.

If they've got all of the starving but none of the talent, they're giftedly bad. If they are still in art school they are also a starving student. If they wear shabby clothes and eat mac & cheese because they're actively trying to project the image of being a struggling artist, they're probably a hipster.

Because most writers are writers, the Starving Writer is a common protagonist in these circumstances. If combined with one-hour work week (as it often is), the reader may come away with the impression that they'd have a better chance of making money if they ever did any writing.

If the Starving Artist has relatives, expect them to be pushing for the character to "grow up" and "get a real job". Generally, if success is elusive, expect them to eventually take up a steady but unfulfilling job with a boring, bourgeois lifestyle, or to die tragically.

See also brilliant, but lazy, for the genius who has no money because they don't apply themselves, and reclusive artist.

  Kia Freeborn from   Wallace from   Kuno Klecksel from  Tony Hancock's character in     The protagonists of  The Bohemians in  The protagonist in  The eponymous protagonist of  Two old actors are sitting on a bench. One says: "How long has it been since you had a job?" The other actor says "Thirty two years — how about you?" The first actor says, "That's nothing. I haven't had a job in forty years!" The other says, "One of these days we've got to get out of this business!"

 Jack in the book  In one of   The title character of    In  The protagonists of the  In  In  One  The blonde dad from  In an episode of  Richard in  When Caitlin gets a   Wendy Watson in  In  The HBO series of the same name portrays the   Ruth Sherwood in  In  One example in particular is    Many webcomic artists and indie game developers tend to be this (or support their job with a steady job like retail). The few artists one hears about spending several years of pure work on something generally aren't as starving as one thinks. For instance, the creator of Braid was able to spend the two years working on just Braid because he was able to spend 200K of his own money on the project.

 Alfons Mucha, rather than keeping his cushy job with Gandegg, first studied in Austria and then at Paris where his subsidy was cut off. He lived on one meal every other day, making this exactly what it says on the tin. He did it all For The Art, and wished he didn't have to do so many advertisements.

 It may only reference the trope, but there is a chain of cafes called the Starving Artist Café.

 There's a homeless artist ("Will paint for food") in  In  Crusader in    In  In  The  After Squidward quits his job in   In the late 50s, Gene Deitch created Gaston Le Crayon for the  Discussed at the Academy of Art during 