

Between tuition and textbooks, rent payments and transit fares, there's only so much money that a poor university student living on bank loans and scholarships is able to put towards food. The starving student is a staple of higher education settings, where even those lucky enough to have financial support from their parents will still be thinking of money in values of mac and cheese boxes or instant noodles. The starving student will often have a rigid budget and spend their entire academic career just scraping by for necessities like clothing and food (but not, of course, for alcohol).

This trope is often truth in television, as college loans are very expensive (growing moreso in some places) and keep many students in debt for years. This results in years of struggling to get by just to pay off their education, which has a higher priority than buying food. In fiction, it is generally played for comedy, especially when the character is also a big eater, but it can be milked for drama at the drop of a hat.

Cousin to the starving artist. Expect it to appear in a broke episode.

 Ewon Jung of  Most of the cast of  In  In  In  The  This is why Laura of  Such a student is the defendant in a Judge Ooka case; he is sued by a restaurant owner because he mentioned to a friend that he used the delicious smells of the restaurant to give imaginary flavor to the one bowl of rice he could have a day. Judge Ooka, being wise, declared that the sound of money was the correct payment for the smell of food.

 A joke has a student go to a doctor, complaining constipation. The doctor examines him and writes a prescription: "Eat something."

  Raskolnikov from  Kvothe's struggle to come up with his tuition money drives a large part of the plot of  Marius from  In  While they aren't students anymore, one episode of  Taken to ridiculous extremes (like everything else) in  In  Implied with Malcolm in  Symon, the titular character from  In  You play one in   Basically the entire cast of  Foul Bachelor Frog is a  Marie Curie was literally one of these while attending the Sorbonne. She actually lived in a garret in the French Quarter, surviving on pennies and often  The New England Journal of Medicine described, in the late 1990s, several cases of scurvy (Vitamin C deficiency) seen in students who had chosen a severely restricted diet - consisted almost entirely of instant noodles - because of cost.

 Due to the 2008 economic recession, many American universities have had to open food banks and pantries to feed their low-income students, some of whom are also homeless or unable to pay the most basic of bills. It is no longer unusual to see or hear about college students going for days without a single meal.

 From personal experience, this troper knows that  Likewise, at the primary and secondary levels in the US, many schools run free lunch programs for low-income students to avert this trope.

