Scientists are human beings, too. And human beings are often wrong. The problem comes when a character that is mentioned to be a respected, intelligent individual (or sometimes an absentminded professor) is called on to state or decides to make a comment on how unlikely it is that an impending and usually bad event will occur. They usually dismiss any possibility of disaster by stating extremely low odds that it will happen, and laugh off holders of an opposing viewpoint as "crazy" or "minsinformed" even if they may in fact be a respected colleague and not just an eccentric, insane or paranoid person who also happens to be right. Point is, nobody can sway him once he's publicly declared that there is, without a doubt, no life on mars. If they do notice anything wrong, they will likely dismiss it as within parameters.

Because the character is held in high regard, everyone listens to them and stops panicking, just in time for the disaster to happen anyway. The character who initially stated these odds often gets involved in the thick of it, quickly changing their mind. This individual may or may not survive. As for their earlier statement, it becomes hilarious in hindsight, and they may or may not be called out for it.

If they die in the ensuing cataclysm, it may be as the result of a death by irony or too dumb to live. In this role they often function as a red shirt or a demonstration that anyone can die. If they survive, they sometimes play the role of the idiot hero or ditzy genius, or rarely the professor. The character is usually depicted as naive at worst, and is usually genuinely intelligent but out of his or her league. A stupid scientist is almost never outright evil.

The stupid scientist can be seen as related to tempting fate and they usually demonstrate some form of genre blindness. They can also be contrasted with the cassandra, in that both herald the event, but the difference is that the Stupid Scientist denies the disaster and is widely believed while the Cassandra says that it will happen and is completely ignored. The opposite trope is an ignored expert, a scientist who tries to warn everyone of danger but is disbelieved. More sensible or recurring Stupid Scientists can be promoted to agent scully.

An einstein sue will often be faced with one of these, so they can show them up.

