

This trope describes when a particular element of a story or setting has been expanded to the point that there's a version to suit every viewer's preference. Another way to describe it might be "a taste for every appetite".

Sometimes this happens gradually, over the course of a series/setting - usually in response to fan demand or just because it's good marketing. In some cases it grows into a plot tumor proper.

A codifying example would be the elf as portrayed in the Dungeons & Dragons tabletop roleplaying game, where the basic "Elf" player race found in the Player's Handbook quickly branches into Dark Elves and Wood Elves in the Monster Manual/Dungeon Master's Guide, and in other official sourcebooks includes Gold, Grey, Sun, Moon, Wild, Sea, High, infernal and celestial variants, Half-Elves and Avariel, just to name a few. Third-party books include countless further versions.

This trope is tied to most "our x are different" Tropes, but isn't quite the same; this trope denotes the explosion of "difference" in a single series or setting, rather than just the varied interpretations of an idea between settings. The cast full of pretty boys and improbably female cast can also be examples of this trope, since they generally exist to provide a large cast catering to a number of niche archetypes and fetishes/paraphilias.

The vast selection of deities in most polytheistic religions is a real-life ur example of this trope.

romance games do this all the time. For otome games and boys love games, there's a standard cast: The rich guy, the energetic, straightforward guy, the cool, aloof guy with glasses, the athletic guy, the guy who is pretty as a girl, the "cool older brother" type, and the suspiciously young-looking guy.

In a case where the setting Tastes The Rainbow on a cosmological level, it's probably a fantasy kitchen sink where every conceivable mythological creature/hero/pantheon shows up at some point.

The title comes from the advertising slogan for Skittles candy.

