A Team Killer is a person who murders other people on their own team.

If you are a member of a group of people dedicated to doing dangerous work, you're probably depending on the other members of your group to back you up. You might not like them, but you'll trust them at least enough not to shoot you in the back. That way, when they shoot you in the back anyhow, the betrayal just makes it all the more shocking.

Villains might do this to each other for any number of reasons, because villain team-ups are generally unstable things at best. Villainous team-killing is most often done to demonstrate how evil someone is. Heroes normally don't team-kill, or at least believe that they shouldn't, because they depend on the power of friendship to bring them through things that would destroy less unified groups.

played for drama, a Team Killer is usually a reprehensible person, who everyone despises as a traitor. Team Killing is often a moral event horizon. A pre-emptive strike to stop a party member from doing something despicable is even more tragic. Occasionally Team-killing is depicted as necessarily evil, but even then it's nearly always morally ambiguous at best.

played for laughs, a Team Killer is a comedic sociopath taken to its logical extreme, and chances are pretty good that the Team-Killed deserved it.

The term originates in online multiplayer first-person shooter games, where certain adolescents take joy in deliberately killing their team-mates. "What the hell, man? Don't team-kill!" is used as an admonishment to this very day. Team killing tends to earn the ire of server admins as well, which can result in the team killer being kicked and/or banned from the server.

A Team-Killer who kills his own employees might be a bad boss; see you have failed me and you have outlived your usefulness for elaboration. In large amounts, it's we have reserves.

See betrayal tropes for a list of many of the people, reasons, and methods involved in Team Killing. For when Team Killing is done in a strictly meta-videogaming sense, see griefer or player killing.

No real-life examples, please. In real life, the matter of who's on what "team" tends to be a lot less distinct than it is in fiction.

    In     Comes up a    In  In  In  All of the Joker's team at the beginning of  In     One of the ongoing subplots in   On  The previous leader of  In   Most factions in   Pick any team-based multiplayer game where  Many traditional RPG's such as  It's a common element in the   In  There are several points in  The same can happen in another Bioware production,  In  In  In  In  The  In   Referenced in  Yeon from   There's no  In  Vegeta (unsurprisingly - see above) in   