He can be in the middle of a gunfight, his best friend's bachelor party, or a helpless witness to the death of everyone and everything he holds dear... and he'll show all the emotional reaction of a victim of a Botox overdose. They can be heroes, antagonists or anti-heroes. On the team he will contrast the hot-blooded. His quiet demeanor tends towards the brusque or outright rudeness, though there are a few polite Stoics. Mostly writers (ab)use it to give the impression of a lot going on inside and cultivate an air of mystery and to confuse other characters with cryptic one-liners.

The Stoic sometimes displays emotion when under extreme stress or in other highly emotional situations, but their usual repertoire consists of mild boredom, detached interest, dull surprise or dignified disdain. He may be a deadpan snarker, or have no sense of humor. If he ever shows true emotion, it's likely to be explosive in its intensity or incredibly subtle and full of emotional torque. The tougher sort of stoic may hide it so thoroughly that only his bad dreams show any of it. Opposed to frozen face, where the emotions appear absent because they do not alter his expression, even in the highly emotional situations. A few stoics might calmly pipe up that they have feelings and opinions too, they just aren't effusive about it.

Masculine pronouns are used throughout this trope because quiet women in fiction tend to be the emotionless girl or stoic woobies. Men who use stoicism to hide their pain are more likely to indulge in mangst. Either way, expect them to be the phlegmatic member of their group.

The Stoic is not necessarily the quiet one. While the Stoic may be low key and quiet, more often than not he's just as talkative as anyone else. Another difference is that while the quiet one does feel and display emotion (albeit less vocally and regularly, and makes up for it with deeper pathos), the Stoic is so devoid of any semblance of human emotion that he borders on being a true tin man. Whether he has emotion or not varies, but he will invariably refuse to ever show it.

There are three types:

 The  Some  This last one has real world examples in Flat affect, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, and Shell Shock.

The silent warrior has roots stretching back to the drifter in Westerns and farther back. the Stoics in ancient greece were philosophers who believed that self-control is the highest virtue, and detachment from strong emotions and passion would give them greater insight in their quest for truth. They also thought that emotional reactions to the inevitable were silly; given that we all die someday, what is grieving over death but a judgment that the inevitable was somehow wrong? Stoics would later be criticized for denying themselves and others any kind of earthly pleasure or silliness in life.

Characters of this type include:                Other tropes associated with stoics include:        Contrast/Compare with loveable rogue, become a real boy, the mccoy and gentle giant. On the far end of emotions vs. stoicism. If a person deliberately inflicts pain on himself to show it doesn't bother him, that's macho masochism.

Contrast rage breaking point, drama queen.

