A common conceit of the sci-fi and fantasy genres (and especially games of those genres) is the notion of not an organization, not a clan, not a city, but an entire race of bad guys who brag about how Evil they are. All of the racial members behave evilly, because — let's face it — Star Trek would've been really boring if kirk had to interview every Klingon he met before punching them out. This may sometimes go so far that a final solution against the defined-as-evil race is portrayed in a quite cheerful light.

Though the trope namer is Dungeons & Dragons, this trope is actually older than dirt — are there any myths and folk tales that don't have some creatures that are portrayed as always evil? Naturally, it's played mutations have also existed for quite a long time. idealistic shows love to subvert it by showing they are not as evil as they seemed.

 The orcs in The Lord of the Rings are a perfect example: they are arguably a lawful evil race overall, even if individual members are not. Just because there's an army of lawful good humans, doesn't mean that the evil army that opposes them can't also be lawful.

How, exactly, these folk have unanimously embraced one ethos (especially one so detrimental to the survival of the group), when humans have been known to kill each other over how many fingers are used in a ritual blessing, is often unknown and inconsequential. When the ethos is justified, often the race is explicitly artificial in origin, rather than natural. Their nature is determined by the evil individual who created them as slaves/warriors/etc — thus dodging the problem that children are innocent. This is often reinforced by having their society believe in asskicking equals authority... and in this case, anyone weak (good) will be killed very quickly.

Expect the national dress to be spikes of villainy and black leather, the reason for keeping pets to be kicking, and their language to be the black speech.

The defector from decadence typically comes from this stock, usually with some qualifier or after having become an ascended demon. Having an ancestor from such a race usually qualifies a character's evil (or potential for it) as being "in the blood".

It's quite common for a fantasy big bad to have an Always Chaotic Evil race at the ready to use as mooks. It's usually justified as an arrangement among the various powers that be. The heroes are likely to be from races where good and evil are possible, to contrast their differences.

May be the subject of a genocide dilemma. This is planet of hats when evil is the hat. For evil professions like pirates and hitmen, see villain by default. When a fictional character (whether human or a member of another fictional race) wrongly and unreasonably believes that a fictional race in his/her world is this trope, it's a case of fantastic racism.

A member of a fictional race holding the same unjustified and false belief about humans would likewise be Fantastic Racism. For cases where humanity, aliens, or predators really are this trope, see humans are the real monsters, aliens are bastards and predators are mean. For tropes that include cases where animals are Always Chaotic Evil, see cats are mean, wicked weasel, you dirty rat, and reptiles are abhorrent.

Be careful when writing these: may lead to unfortunate implications.

See also what measure is a non-human?, hard-coded hostility, my species doth protest too much, and scary dogmatic aliens. Compare lawful stupid, chaotic stupid. Contrast always lawful good. Should not be confused with chaotic evil.

For subversions of this trope, when it turns out that mooks or an enemy race are not necessarily bad, see not always evil.

