An Amusing Alien is a sci-fi, fantasy, or otherworldly character whose main purpose is to amuse the audience.

While the Amusing Alien might have a mundane purpose in the story, a character belongs in this trope only if comedy is his primary reason for existing in the work. Most of the time, the Amusing Alien will be a secondary or background character, to avoid excessively derailing the plot with their antics. The primary exception is in comedies, where casting an Amusing Alien as the main character leads to lots of easy jokes.

May overlap with funny foreigner, but the two tropes are not identical. An otherworldly funny foreigner elicits laughs from their ignorance and bizarre behavior; an Amusing Alien, on the other hand, can be anything from the smart guy, a deadpan snarker, or a genre savvy fourth wall observer. As a general rule, if the Amusing Alien is of a race or species that's common in the work, the trope is funny foreigner instead.

If there's a multi-character party, the Amusing Alien will probably be the team pet, the non-human sidekick, or the token non-human.

Given the subjective nature of comedy, the risk is high that an Amusing Alien can end up becoming a scrappy if not handled carefully. This trope documents alien characters that were intended to be funny; whether or not they succeed is another matter...

Also see alien among us, pet monstrosity, plucky comic relief, fantastic anthropologist, and crazy cultural comparison. Supertrope to funny robot.

 Mokona from  7-Zark-7, from  America's little buddy Tony of  A good deal of the cast in  From the  From the  Starfire in   Greedo from  Jake, the title character from  Several in the  Pizza the Hutt, Yogurt, Barf the Mawg, Dot Matrix, and the Dinks in  Gimli the Dwarf in  Bubo the mechanical owl from the original  The main character of  Rincewind's Luggage from the  An entire species of Amusing Aliens:  An hilariously out-of-the-ordinary example of this trope occurs in      Tom, Dick, Harry, and Sally from  All the eponymous  Uncle Martin from  V.I.C.I. from  Alpha 5 from  The  Morn, the perpetual barfly at Quark's Bar on  Meego, the  Angelo from  Twiki from  George Sunday/Thermoman from  Jeannie from  Brian and Sophie Johnson, the titular parents of  Hymie from  Tom Servo and Crow from    Dex, also known as the  Tripitaka's dragon-cum-horse-cum-human from  Everybody in Hidden Hills on   Anya in  Like  Hans the winged pig in  The Elcor from the  Most of the aliens in  Kiki from  Div from  Ahem in   Molly The Peanut Butter Monster from    Bob of  Utkon Mai of  Rumble Red and Nebulon from  Mr. Mxyzptlk from the  Roger from  Pleakley from   There's a variety in   Uni the unicorn from  Slimer in  Orko from 