A creature with two legs but no wings or arms. May be used to make a creature look more alien, as the form is anthropomorphic yet easily falls into the uncanny valley. Or they make something appear harmless until it's too late. They can also be used to stylistic effect for cartoons with less realistic character designs.

Note that it's armless, not harmless - they may still have a dangerous bite, kick or tail-whip/sting, or may have psychic or magical abilities.

Note that examples only count as this for species that naturally lack arms. That is, humans and other races that normally have them don't count just because of injury or a birth defect that caused them to be born without them.

waddling head is this minus a torso. May result in invisible anatomy.

  One monster from  The Shmoo from  Shriekers and Ass-Blasters from the   King Ghidorah from the  The Hammerheads in  The Carrion in  The mecha from Orson Scott Card's  The inhabitants of Slongorn in the  In  The wakka from   Several creatures in Wayne Barlowe's  Many of  Some types of  Digesters, from  The eponymous critters from the board game    The entire  Inverted by several iterations of the Weebles toy line.

 The earlier  The Gekko of  The Goomba and Bob-Ombs from   In  The Headless from  The monsters from the  The  Glaahks in  Alits and Kagoutis in  Scavengers, as well as Snappers and their subspecies in the first two games of the  A few  Slavens and other same-class enemies in   Djinn in the  The giant monster,  The Knife Thrower enemies in  The player figure in  Inverted by bile demons of   Plodder and Sneaker from  Creepers in  The original  The Bulborbs in  The title character from  Milford Cubicle in  This is actually a plot point in the animated short  In   Prowlies in  In an homage/parody of the Goomba, Bogeys from  The aptly nicknamed "Legs" from  Nagas from  Doctor Disaster's simulation in   Dust Puppy from  Gagoyle from  The original designs for Mike Wizowcski from  Inverted by the Arkadians of  Inverted by Mr. Wobblyman of  Inverted by the inhabitants of Weebleville in  Peep and Quack from  Armless Norman, a trading card character on  The moas. Large, extinct ostrich like birds from New Zealand that completely lacked wings. Other flightless birds had their wings reduced to a few bones, but moas lost even the joints to which the wings were attached.

 Snakes probably lost their front limbs before their hindlimbs- even today, you'll still find boas with vestigial pelvic girdles and clawed 'spurs' where their hind limbs used to be. Although they never stood upright, so that probably doesn't count.

 Abelisaurs such as the somewhat famous Carnotaurus were on the process of becoming this: Their arms retained a single spike-like claw, with the remaining 3 fingers being mere stumps, and their forearms became part of their wrist, reducing their arms to backwards-bending stumbs that were functionally useless and were getting smaller over time.  Inverted with frogs: when metamorphosing from tadpoles, their legs are the first things they gain upon reaching adulthood. They instead lose their tails.

 Motor proteins, which transport materials along the microtubules inside cells, have a pair of "legs" that they use to grip and "walk" along the tubules' surfaces.

