Biological, but unnaturally created humans, ranging from "biological robot" to "clone".

Anime sometimes uses the term "android" for them, in a way different than the West. Ironically, this is closer to the original meaning, which according to the dictionary, is "An automaton that is created from biological materials and resembles a human" (Often in these cases, the term "Bioroid" may be used to classify them separately from the contemporary definition of Android).

The important thing is that Artificial Humans look like humans, they move like them, etc. Some may be bullet proof, but you wouldn't be able to tell from touch. Sometimes the only physical indicator is eye-color, which may be red, yellow or purple, or an unusual skin/hair pigment. Not always, though, and given the range of eye and hair color in anime, it's not a perfect indicator.

Artificial Humans often have cognitive traits typical of a robot, such as mathematical skill and a perfect memory on the positive side, and uncreativity and excessive literal-mindedness on the negative side. Many of them also have the same kind of loyalty to their creators that robots tend to be programmed for — although a.i. is a crapshoot in the case of the Artificial Human just as it is when it comes to the electronic version of artificial intelligence.

But many of them have more in common with humans emotionally than robots. They are often outsiders, so their emotional states are often in the "angst" category, which leads to bonding with the kind-hearted hero(ine) or kill all humans. If in a society that fully accepts them, there is usually no emotional difference.

Like robots outside anime, it doesn't matter what they're created for, they'll usually have increased strength, speed, and other powers. See super-powered robot meter maids.

Note that the very first use of the word "robot" in fiction, the eponymous "robots" from Karel Capek's R.U.R. (for Rossum's Universal Robots), were actually Artificial Humans and not the clanking metal humanoids we now associate with that term. Actual clanking metal humanoids do go back to the Greek myth of Talos and Hephaestus' automatons in the 5th century BCE, but that's another trope.Just like most artificial humanoid characters, Artificial Humans tend to become a real boy over the course of the plot. mechanical evolution is often invoked in their origins.

See also creating life, robot, and spaceship girl. Compare ridiculously human robot. Contrast forgot he was a robot.

