

Maybe the character was born a mutant, or belong to a human subspecies, or have gone far enough up the evolutionary levels as part of the goal of evolution, or underwent extensive bio-augmentation of the essentially permanent kind... Or perhaps they were even created as an artificial human from the get-go. The bottom line is, this human character's biology, while not technically alien, cannot be considered "normal human" by any stretch of the term, be it due to having extra organs (duplicate or not), wildly different biochemistry, abnormal nutritional requirements, or even possessing completely new cellular organelles.

Note that not all cases of human subspecies, transhumanism, mutants, bio-augmentation, etc. lead to bizarre human biology. They are only possible ways for attaining this trope.

Compare and contrast bizarre alien biology, which may overlap with this trope in cases of half human hybrids or panspermia.

 Italy's  Souther ( The   Post-Extremis, it was revealed that   In '' While    In the  Human soldiers from  In  The  In the mystery story "The Image in the Mirror" by  Humans of the planet  The Sebeceans in  In     In   In the Enemy Within expansion for   Similar to the Hetalia example above, Aoba from Dramatical Murder has hair with nerve endings in it.  In  In   There are also quite a few other congenital birth disorders, from practically invisible (webbed fingers/toes), mostly harmless (hare lip, extra finger(s) or toe(s), alopecia (lack of hair)), debilitating (limb deformities), and probably not going to survive for long after birth, if the infant even lasts that long (born  About 1/400 people has their kidneys fused into a horseshoe-shape, which is mostly asymptomatic.   An...    Wisdom tooth extraction is an experience that is apparently universal to your average teenager or vicenarian. If they aren't getting them removed, then lucky them, they never grew them at all! And then there are those who never had them removed because they had so much room in their mouths that the wisdom teeth were able to grow in and settle in as happy and comfortably as any of the other teeth they grew. Some even have   A 