As explained elsewhere, we primates have certain visual cues we rely on to tell a woman from a man; men are generally taller and more muscular. Women are shorter, more curvaceous and have breasts. This is because we are Sexually Dimorphic animals.

This is also the case in several other animal species, particularly those who also rely mostly on vision, and communicate largely with visual displays. The most common kind of dimorphism is when males and females of the same species sport different colors and markings.

Then there are a few species (relatively speaking) in which males and females look wildly different. One sex may even have an entire physical feature that the other lacks (other than, you know, the obvious ones) — if the other sex doesn't sport his/her own trademark physical feature. In a very few species, males and females may be different enough to look like completely different animals.

And science fiction writers, when inventing aliens and fantasy races, love to run with this. There are several alien or fantastical creatures in which the sexes are wildly different. This tends to run towards the extreme end of the Earth scale and beyond: they could be greatly unequal in strength or intelligence; one sex could even be reduced to an inert breeding machine or parasite like certain species of insects and fish. The most common example is for males to be bestial or ugly by human standards, while the females are cute monster girls. Whilst we want to say "oh, it's all biological and totally rational", a substantial amount of this derives from most writers are male and will opt to make their female members of their fantasy race as close to human as possible regardless of what the males look like for easy opportunities for fanservice and male gaze exploitation to boost the number of eyeballs watching.

Tends to go hand-in-hand with bizarre alien biology. See also cute monster girl, one-gender race, humanoid female animal, mr. seahorse, the ugly guy's hot daughter and bee people. For a (relatively speaking) more subtle sex difference, see tertiary sexual characteristics.

Taken to the logical extreme, this leads to hot skitty-on-wailord action.

May occur in conjunction with bizarre alien sexes, and in some such cases, "Bizarre Sexual Polymorphism" may be a more technically accurate term. Indeed, that name redirects to this trope.

