They look exactly like hot women, and they make out with other hot women. But they're actually aliens/immortals/bodysnatchers/etc. So it's not really gay, right?

Discount Lesbians are canon homosexual characters and couples who are either not human to begin with, come from alternate realities, have been magically or technologically altered in ways that affect their sexuality, etc., so that they don't really "count". This usually seems to be a device used within the story to maintain a status quo that lets the (presumed) audience watch two hot chicks making out without having to think about the associated real-world issues of homosexuality. On the other hand, the trope may come into play if the writer wishes to include a lesbian relationship in the story but is worried about moral guardians, thus becoming a way for a rule-abiding rebel to make an attempt at getting crap past the radar.

Note that they're discount lesbians only if they're included in the story in a way that obviates the need to address the associated issues of sexuality. This is usually done through othering homosexuality by associating it only with characters who have conspicuously different traits from the viewers. Characters used to draw attention to those issues are inversions, although this can still fall into fantastic aesop or space whale aesop. If they're stated to be homosexual they're not Discount Lesbians, just a non-human who happens to be gay.

Basically gays... but cheaper. Commonly carries unfortunate implications (see page quote). It can be considered a subtrope of but not too gay.

Compare have you tried not being a monster?, lesbian vampire, bury your gays, and (occasionally) elfeminate. Related to deceptively human robots because both are only as robotic/gay, respectively, as is convenient for the show. Also see space jews for aliens standing in for minorities. Related to hide your lesbians in that both are a way of including apparently gay content without admitting to it. Not to be confused with transgender and metaphorically transgender characters.

