The Other. The Alien. The Inconceivable. The Eldritch Abomination is a type of creature defined by its disregard for the natural laws of the universe as we understand them. They are grotesque mockeries of reality beyond comprehension whose disturbing otherness cannot be encompassed in any mortal tongue. Humans suffer brown note or go mad from the revelation effects just from witnessing their alien geometries. Reality itself warps around them. Any rules that they do follow are beyond our understanding, as are what motives they might have for any of their actions.

Native to h.p. lovecraft's cosmic horror story genre, the Eldritch Abomination has become a mainstay of horror and fantasy works, along with numerous others that derive inspiration from Lovecraft. They are often used as a bigger bad, mad god, evil god or sealed evil in a can. As they are defined by existing outside reality as we conceive it, most also come from somewhere beyond the stars or before the dawn of time or outside our universe.

Physically, the Eldritch Abomination is only defined by seeming somehow “off”, hinting at their incomprehensible nature. They can range from humanoid to animalistic to physically impossible to inconceivably bizarre. However, common physical characteristics include similarities to internal organs, genitalia, animals with tentacles, or celestial bodies.

Subtrope of our monsters are different and our monsters are weird. For Eldritch Abominations with a specific appearance, see humanoid abomination and animalistic abomination. For specific storylines involving Eldritch Abominations, see the did you just index cthulhu? page. Compare to god of evil, the old gods, starfish aliens and paradox person. Note that a monster being really powerful, weird or ugly is not, in and of itself, an example of this trope. The monster must break the established internal logic of the work.

Thanks to the nature of this trope, potential real life examples are very vague and questionable at best. So no real life examples, please!             