Many stories will have animosity between a beautiful, highly advanced race or civilization, and a much more gritty, industrial, technological force (note: "technological" in the sense of having a non-religious attitude toward their tech, in the literal sense both civilizations tend to draw on the same magical or technological forces, making them not so different). This theme of harmony versus discipline and romanticism versus enlightenment is very common, regardless of the genre. Also look at the Apollonian/Dionysian contrast.

In many fantasy fictions these roles are filled by elves and dwarves. Elves are tall and slender, Dwarves are short and stout. Making a physical difference like this is a common way to point out that the two groups are meant as a foil of one another.

 Elves use  Elves will focus on magic and spirituality and evince disdain for material things, or to be  Elves live in  Elves are often portrayed as being masters of diplomacy, debate, rhetoric,  Elves dress fancily, sing elaborate songs, write poetic literature in flowing script, and are embodiments of beauty and style. Dwarves are often unkempt, sport long We've given a lot of information here about the specific races, elves and dwarves, but the core of this trope isn't about them. It's about how that plays out in lots of stories that have no elves or dwarves in them at all. In historical fictions/fantasies, you'll find aristocrats versus barbarians, for example, which could be exchanged for elves and dwarves quite easily. Science Fiction will have some variation on eloi and morlocks, or a crystal spires and togas race versus a proud warrior race, or a primitive but nature-oriented race versus humans. In a contemporary business setting, it'll be marketeers versus engineers. A lot of the modern retelling of the classic cowboys and indians western sagas has been presented as this sort of "spiritual barbarian vs. industrialized civilization" meme. force and finesse tends to describe their contrasting combat styles.

A common subversion is for the elf and the dwarf to better understand each other and their respective cultures. The dwarf may gain a new respect for the elf's culture and deep learning, while the elf comes to appreciate the dwarf's craftsmanship and hard work. Also expect both sides to put aside their differences and team up against a third enemy, who's usually portrayed as primarily destructive (orcs, for example). The attribute shared by elves and dwarves primarily being creativity.

Compare with pirates versus ninjas — although the latter is a recent memetic mutation while this trope is older than television. Likewise the horror-oriented werewolves vs. vampires. Comedy will show this one as slobs versus snobs, big guy, little guy, or fat and skinny. It can sometimes manifest as a form of fantastic racism. Don't expect to see a dwarf/elf hybrid due to hybrid overkill avoidance and both sides being very squicked at the prospect.

