

Is the hero of your fantasy tale really 700 years old or your big bad is a time abyss? Perhaps mr. exposition gained most of his knowledge by being older than they look? They are? Great. Now, how best to go about showing the audience that they are?

Exposition of Immortality is a narrative device common in speculative fiction, fantasy literature and media derived from those sources. If a work has a character who falls into one of the immortality tropes you can be 99% certain that, at some point, their age is going to come up in conversation or otherwise be brought to the attention of the audience. The methods that a work uses to show that a character is really, really old generally occurs in the following ways:

      Exposition Of Immortality is not the same as time travel. Characters who end up with memories of past times or encounters with historical figures solely due to temporal tourism did not live through that period of history, and thus, aren't demonstrating their extreme longevity at all. Such characters may, however, be encountered by people who know them in the future via time travel. Exposition Of Immortality only applies to characters who're unusually long-lived or actually immortal. Naturally old characters reminiscing does not invoke this trope.

Closely related to really 700 years old, time abyss and older than they look. Often involves dreaming of times gone by, the time of myths and settings with a fantasy kitchen sink. When played for laughs, this becomes a historical in-joke.

Exposition of Immortality will often lead to two sub-tropes being invoked: Exposure of Immortality and Evidence of Immortality.

 Exposure of Immortality: When a character in a work is immortal, he is often either perceived to be normal or actively trying to be perceived as such. Sometimes, these characters will need to out themselves to the world at large in order to prove the existence of the supernatural to doubters and deal with a greater threat. Sometimes, they just want to prove it. And sometimes, they're exposed by others deliberately; either to reveal their True Nature and bring about their downfall or during the course of a mundane investigation that uncovers their secret.

 Evidence of Immortality: Exposition that shows a character to be immortal or otherwise older than he appears to be 