As other tropes indicate, eyes are very, very meaningful. It's a cliché to call them windows to the soul. This trope reminds us that alone, eyeballs are fragile spheres of gel only vaguely reminiscent of their usual purpose of subtle social cues. So a single eye completely outside the context of a face is just creepy. Bad guys often favor a singular, unblinking, Faceless Eye as an insignia— bonus points if said villain runs a dystopian society of unending surveillance. Even without an ominous big bad attached, the prospect of a thousand eyeballs shooting you to death with eye beams is fundamentally more unsettling than a thousand mooks with frickin' laser beams. Fighting them usually leads to "go for the eye".

A cyclops character is more relatable than this kind of being, since cyclopes have a recognizable facial structure, with at least a mouth. These examples are far beyond the edges of the uncanny continent. It is also interesting to note that the representations of many insane ais use this trope - most likely to underscore their creepiness.

Of course, being long past the uncanny valley already, these examples often also involve technicolor eyes, hellish pupils, and red eyes, take warning. Contrast the blank and eyeless face. If an eye is on a part of the body other than the face, it's eyes do not belong there. See also oculothorax for monsters whose body is primarily an eyeball. Since they are mostly an eye, they tend to be evil.

 Vision Express, a chain of opticians in the UK, started an advertising campaign in 2009 using pairs of identically-dressed people with giant eyeballs for heads.  "The Eye" is an insignia for the Priesthood in the  The   In  In the first season of  Odin in  The true form of  One of  One of  The   A few   A superhero  An evil alien (masquerading as a superhero) Wandering Eye in the comic  Also plays a role in  Several characters in comics, such as  The Eye of Ekron, the floating, intelligent weapon of the Emerald Empress in  The  The Evil Eye from the strip of the same name in the british comic     The  One of the monsters in  The 1993 movie  The movie  The eyes in the darkness at the beginning of  As mentioned in the description above, possibly the most iconic use of this trope for an insane AI is HAL-9000 from   The Film      Umbridge keeps a magical eyeball in her door in  The repressive theocratic government of Gilead, in Margaret Atwood's novel  Similarly,  The  The Graii from  The Haunter in the Dark (one of Nyarlathotep's many avatar's) from a  The god Blind Io in  In  Stephen King's      Experimental Rock group  The   The music video for  The members of   One strip of    In KAZe's  The "Tower" table in  In  In    In     The   A level in  Waddle Doo, an early enemy in the  Rularuu Watchers in   The briefing image of the Overmind in   Almost every single roguelike has them. Their usual power is paralysis and they are usually harmless when encountered alone.     The  The  Many  The "Mind's Eye" creatures in  The "Orbs" from the obscure  The Mother Brain from   The Evil Eye and Electro Swoosh enemies in  The final boss of   The second stage of the original  The Rhombulans in  The  Shaddai, one of  Ichimokuren in  In   The  Speaking of  And speaking of  The  The Wise One of  The Suezo monsters from  The Ahriman family of monsters from the  In  Wizeman in  The alien enemies of early FPS  In  The personality cores form    The Gran Centurio of  The   One of the player models in  The boss at the end of  In    Kineticlops from  The 2011 Halowe'en update in  The Mogall and Arch Mogall monster classes in  A stylized single eye is the emblem for the  The NES game  Alexander the Great from    In  At one point    Ebbirnoth from  Odineye from     The Tooth Fairy in  Dr. Zin's Robot Spy from    On   Shockwave from  The logo for CBS. Many viewers comparing notes on  Know that RX symbol you see on prescriptions? It represents the Eye of Horus from Egyptian mythology. Or the astrological symbol for Jupiter. Or, most likely, it's an abbreviation of the Latin imperative "recipe", meaning "take".

 Run for the hills! Its the animatronic eyeball monster!!!  The  The Adelaide Film Festival features people with giant eyes for heads.

 The  The logo for Pinkerton Government Services, Inc. (formerly the 