

Humans are naturally curious, and even when science is wrong we want to know why. In a fantasy setting, these curious people will found whole new academic fields and professions around studying the strange and fantastic flora, fauna and phenomena that exist in it. Just like some schools of hermetic and vancian magic will create ritual magic by analyzing occultism with scientific rigor, these professionals (not necessarily wizards, though that does help the survival rate) will go about cataloguing, studying and (hopefully humanely) experimenting with peculiar phyla in a very empirical way.

Possible Fantastic Scientists include a botanist who studies mandragora, a biologist cataloguing griffins, or an epidemonologist who studies outbreaks of infectious demonic possession to find a cure. Likewise, you can expect their field of study to have a strange made up name, like herbology or Impology. All the same, they will go about studying these curious classes as if they were real... because in the setting, they are!As a character, a Fantastic Scientist is often the professor or at least the smart guy, possibly a bit of an absent-minded professor or even mad scientist. They can be amiable enough deliverers of exposition, background, in need of rescuing from their subject of study, or the cause of some shenanigans (like the above epidemonologist letting loose an improved possession plague). Their motivations can range from curiosity, a desire to discover potential applications, or to gain kingship over this kingdom. Their home or office will usually have a magical library with truly eclectic books and a bazaar of the bizarre composed of their subject of study.

A magic-powered pseudoscience is more likely to be "alchemy works because of magic" and modeled on that pseudoscience than an attempt by in-universe characters to model the magic as the regular science that this is. It should be noted that alchemy does not fall under this trope due to the fact that it is technically real.If an occult detective decides to also catalogue whatever it is they detect, they may also be researchers of a Fantastic Science. Research into magic itself is the subtrope sufficiently analyzed magic. See also magic versus science, admiring the abomination. Compare the spark of genius.

