So you think you're hot stuff, eh? You actually did it, you punched out cthulhu. You drove the hit points of that physical god, demon, or eldritch abomination down to zero, and it vanished.

Unfortunately — he's coming back. You see, what you killed was just part of him. the physical part that was inhabiting our universe at the time. His reappearance isn't coming back from the dead. It's regrowing a fingernail. This is how powers that be can occasionally take things into their own hands without breaking Da Rules.

This isn't to say there wasn't some accomplishment here. At the very least, he's gone for now. In some cases this can mean peace for years. And in some...days. Better spend that time researching a way to make him deader than dead or at least find a way to seal him in a can so that he can't rise again to threaten the land.

Sometimes, especially in Video Games, you aren't even that lucky, however. This can be used as a variation of hopeless boss fight so that the battle didn't count, or heads i win, tails you lose. A very difficult boss that you aren't expected to defeat is presented to you. If you lose, the plot goes on with your loss, but if you win? "HAHAHA! That was only my shadow!", and then the real boss waves his hand, and you lose, anyway.

There are four main types:

 The being's original body is incorporeal and the physical body is just a (possibly replaceable) tool that allows it to interact with the physical world. This version counts as a form of  The being exists simultaneously in this world and beyond; it really is "dipping" into 3-Dimensional space. These tend to  Its awareness is mostly in the form it's taking in this universe; the death of this body merely returns it to its origin point like a rubber band being let go. These type tend to be vulnerable to  A more mortal villain may also get in on this act through the use of ensorcelling Not related to (but sometimes achieved by) casting a shadow. Also see: as long as there is evil, soul jar. The inverse of this trope is synchronization where killing one part kills the rest. Compare actually a doombot, worf had the flu, backup twin, cloning gambit, and robot master, decoy getaway and faking the dead.

