

After generations of kaiju movies including godzilla, gamera and countless imitators, viewers seem conditioned to accept that any giant monster or robot is completely immune to conventional weaponry. This can be a problem for filmmakers, either making the military in their films look stupid for even being there or destroying the audience's suspension of disbelief when five rounds rapid actually works. Not much can be done about this.

It would seem that audiences usually like to see a more creative method for destroying the monster than more dakka.

There are a few methods for overcoming this, including depleted phlebotinum shells and (inexplicably) attaching the very same weapons to another giant robot or monster. On the other hand, simply laying out poisoned bait for these critters and letting their appetites do them in will never, ever, ever occur to anyone.

Contrast the square/cube law, which suggests larger things should actually be weaker. However, assuming that the Square Cube Law is still in effect, and they still don't collapse and die, then this trope is justified. For example, a human scaled up to 12 Feet tall built like a brick house would have to be strong enough to fight Spiderman in order to work.

  Of course, this is a staple of the  In   The trope is averted in     Played with in  Zigzagged in  Subverted in   This could be the reason dinosaurs in the first two   In  Every  Averted with  Subverted in the 90's  Averted in  Downplayed in  Averted in  Averted in  This is certainly the characters' initial reaction to the skyscraper-sized vordbulks in  Averted in Taylor Anderson's  Zigzagged in the   A lot of Japanese  In  Played straight in  Parodied by one of the final unpublished strips of   Averted in  In  Played mostly straight in  Averted in   The  The  In the  Generally averted in  Subverted in  Averted by giant transformers Omega Supreme and Trypticon in  Averted in the  In the  Technically averted, but played straight in any practical sense in the "Hoth" level of  EVERY. MACROPHILE. STORY. EVER. Every one there has ever been or ever will be uses this Trope extensively, and even taking it to ridiculous extremes. Some stories, artwork, and etc do try and be more intelligent about it. Though as often as they run afoul of the  Averted in   An episode of   In  If it comes to that, even  In   Despite the aversion in the American  Perhaps not as ridiculous a trope as it seems; a 50 meter tall, 20,000+ ton monster would most certainly  Considering a simple hunting rifle can bring down an elephant, this is definitely not  