ugly cute characters, and those trying to design them, walk a thin line. If they run too close to the "Ugly" side of the scale, you can wind up with something that warrants an nightmare fuel warning, due to how messed-up it looks.

This basically covers what happens when animators try for ugly cute and fail spectacularly. Then again, sometimes the "failure" is intentional. Compare uncanny valley.

 This Kinder Surprise ad from the 1980s. Horrified an entire generation of ovoid-shaped-chocolate-product-eating kids in Western Europe.  British ad from 1986 for Mr Soft mints.  The toenail fungus monsters in those  A completely straight example: When Ed "Big Daddy" Roth designed the characters in  Some of     The 18th century cartoons by James Gillray and Thomas Rowlandson.

 Lena Hyena in      The cartoons of Jean-Marc Reiser, Kamagurka,  There are more than a few examples of terror to be found in good old Disneyland/Walt Disney World. Simply put, there is a darn good reason why   1985's   Jim Henson's  Also all of  Most of   The  The picture book    Tim Burton's  Gennady Spirin's illustrated edition of   From  Those (un)lucky enough to grow up in Chicagoland (and various syndication markets) in the late '70s may have been "treated" to  Most of the characters on  The '80s French program   Basement Jaxx's "Where's Your Head At" is an upbeat-sounding dance song, but the video has monkeys  Music videos by  Many videos by  Nutcrackers are not festive symbols of holiday cheer. They are terrible, grimacing figures of rage with toothy, lipless mouths that open into their chests. That they are generally dressed in military garb and carry weapons does not help. And since they're made to, you know, crack nuts, it's easy for a child's mind to seize onto the idea of them crushing other things, such as the bones in one's fingers. Overexposure may numb the terror, but won't remove the underlying wrongness of the malevolent, garish things. How something so ghastly became a symbol of yuletide festivities is absolutely baffling.

 Boglins are incredibly gross looking.

 Bobbleheads are weird looking because of their abnormally large heads.

 Any character from  The Anthrosauri in  Everything ever in    Rankin and Bass' animated version of   Lots of stuff in   A few in  Most anything in    A real-life equivalent were the  Many documentary makers and photographers look for places like this.

 Any place where a large number of people with a similar special interest gather together (