There's a certain group of people. They have a normal childhood, to an extent, but somewhere along the way, they discover they're different. Not like the other children. Not like their parents. They're something unusual. Something that means they can never fit in. They hide their differences deep away from themselves, but it eats away at them.

Then they find others like them - also living in secret and ostracized from society. A subculture, upholding a masquerade of being normal by day, but living out a secret lifestyle in seedy bars and locations. They might ask their family if they would still love them, but chances are that if they ever tell their parents, acceptance will be hard, and they'll inevitably be asked, "Have you tried...not being a monster?"

This story is familiar to many real-life minorities, the most well known example being gay people, so it's not that surprising that it's so often used for various fantastical creatures as well. Often as part of the masquerade, you have at least someone hiding who they are from their parents.

In some cases, this appears to be a way to introduce gay themes into a plot when they're too cowardly to introduce actual gay characters or when they feel that allegory or metaphor will be less likely to be censored. Some writers go farther and do have gay characters, sometimes making the metaphor explicit in the text. In these cases, it can result in certain characters reacting in a way that some real-life people react to gays, but that makes no sense in the actual context.

In its best use, this kind of scene can create an effective allegory. In other cases, it seems to be simply the natural outcome of the circumstances the story is set in. If there is a stigmatized difference that is not readily apparent or can be disguised (especially one that appears when the character is old enough to hide it), chances are that characters will try to hide it to avoid being judged, and that if/when they come out, it'll come as a unpleasant shock to someone.

As one can imagine, this trope can have myriad unfortunate implications, especially if the muggles have justifiable reasons to fear the fictional entities in question, although the intent is usually to deal with a social issue without causing a moral panic. Remember, tropes are not bad.

See Also: space jews, fantastic racism, ambiguously gay, hide your lesbians, discount lesbians, does this remind you of anything?, all of the other reindeer, why couldn't you be different? and stages of monster grief.

