When is the last time you heard of a half-human hybrid who was human on his or her father's side? As stated under dhampyr, these creatures' mothers tend to be human, and their fathers... something else. In the case of vampires and little people, a human just seems more likely to successfully carry a hybrid to term. It's also perhaps the natural outreach of mars needs women. If everyone finds human chicks attractive, it stands to reason that human chicks would have more mixed kids. On the rare occasion that Venus Needs Men, the Venusians will almost always be sexy, scantily clad and conforming to western norms of beauty, in an outgrowth of the male gaze. Or maybe the idea of an innocent human lady being seduced and ravished by some dashingly handsome male vampire/werewolf/demon/angel/alien/whatever is just a lot more alluring to an audience than the opposite for whatever reason.

Additionally, a lot of half-human hybrids are the product of rape, love-em-and-leave-em seduction, or tragic romance. Generally, it's much easier to justify a glorified sperm donor if he's not even human. Out of our traditional assumption that it is the men who travel and the women who stay home, or the simple biological fact that if a relationship ends or never existed in the first place while the woman is pregnant, she'll end up with the baby, comes the possibility that the child will be brought up among humans.

If the father does stick around in a mixed marriage with the mother, that's still no guarantee of a happy childhood. all will be discriminated against, and chances are one or both parents will be killed by bigots... sometimes inside their own family.

-

See also i hate you, vampire dad. Could be considered a fantastic extension of ugly guy, hot wife.

Contrast boldly coming. Note: the female tends to a): be really really beautiful, b): die before the story begins, and c): if she stays alive, be the queen of her race. Nonhuman mums generally also belong to more "feminine" races, such as fairies, mermaids, angels, and the like. Also, inversions may have the male as a retired badass and the female as part of the standard hero reward.

