On its surface, being immortal is a pretty sweet gig. You have a lot of time on your hands and usually you never have to suffer the effects of injury or old age.

Now, the wise group of sages known as queen once asked us, "who wants to live forever?" and here's one reason why: in many works of fiction featuring immortality, not only do they outlive their mortal lovers, but the immortals in question also are sterile or infertile: they cannot have children, since children are considered the "normal" way for mortal humans to ensure their legacy.

In many cases, this is an example of cursed with awesome, because, along with some std immunity, it means that the teen-looking ancient vampire stud can get it on with the ladies as much as he wants without worrying about consequences of any sort, particularly leaving lovers pregnant with a dhampyr who will eventually grow up and try to kill him. Or at least demand child support.

Immortals may have methods of making mortals immortal (vampire bite, applied phlebotinum, or the like) and they may come to view those that they bring over into immortality as their own children, teaching them the lessons and how to thrive as an immortal. This, however, is not the same as having natural children.

Sometimes the beings in question are perfectly able to have children, but are not allowed to, by the laws of their society, because allowing immortals to breed will quickly lead to overpopulation. This usage tends to be found in hard speculative fiction.

Another common twist is to have immortals that are quite fertile/potent but whose children are completely or near-completely mortal. These examples are also included here because they fit in with the theme that unchecked reproduction combined with immortality is unsustainable. This aversion is probably even more tragic, since the immortal will then be forced to watch their children die as they inevitably outlive them all.

In a strictly biological sense this trope is fairly logical. Without death, an immortal population would constantly grow and eventually crowd themselves out and deplete their resources. As such, childbirth isn't really a necessity for such a species, since the members rarely need replacement. The above formula can (loosely) apply to any given species. Not to mention the little fact that females only have a limited amount of eggs in their ovaries, so one can presume that even if they're blessed with eternal youth, in the end there is no escaping menopause.

This trope includes extremely long lived characters and species with low birth rates, as they fit on the sliding scale properly. The most common example of this is elves; Tolkienesque elves generally are the ageless and can have children; their population is mitigated by a low birth rate (a typical elf couple can live together for several thousand years and produce only one or two children in all that time), the occasional violent death, and the tendency for older elves to journey across the sea to a mystical land, never to be seen again.

Related to creative sterility; this is a focus on sexual reproduction. Can result in a dying race.

