Judging by television, it would seem that any sufficiently complex computer inevitably becomes sentient. It just happens, automagically, while the builder's back is turned.

It doesn't matter that we do not yet have a thorough enough understanding of all of the mind's mechanisms to artificially duplicate the thinking process. Just add a handful of memory chips, a bolt of lightning or some of that imported alien phlebotinum and Bingo! It's wakey-wakey for the BFC-2000.

A bit more modern take on the trope might involve instructions that unintentionally result in sentience, such as ordering a program to continuously adapt itself. Such adaptations may occur overnight. Then again, they may be in a situation that forces them to grow beyond their programming. Additional shortcuts may include the assimilation of large bodies of information ("the internet" tends to be popular these days).

Given that such a being is not man-made, the use of artificial is probably incorrect, but most people won't care.

The end result of this may vary. Said AI may turn against its creator, or become a friend to all living things. It may develop a human-like personality or remain as cold and emotionless as it was before. What becomes of an intelligence after it becomes... well... intelligent... is not covered by this trope.

This is, perhaps surprisingly, one theory amongst real-world researchers in artificial intelligence. Some believe that a necessary prerequisite for machine intelligence is a certain minimum complexity of the system that runs the software (i.e. keep throwing more chips in it until it gets smart). There are a few theorists who think that there is a possibility that, given enough complexity, some form of intelligence just might spontaneously develop (this is, of course, an extremely simplified explanation of a vast amount of research in machine intelligence, but still relatively accurate). Companies like IBM are spending buckets of money on pure R&D to develop supercomputers with massive numbers of connections just to test these theories, which makes this closer to truth in television than you might expect.

See also a.i. is a crapshoot and sliding scale of robot intelligence. Of course, you don't want to actually add water (that would be stupid), because there's no water proofing in the future. Subtrope of creating life is unforeseen.

