little people— really little people. Lilliputians are humanoid characters whose main characteristic is that they are very, very small. Like, up to your knee small. Size of your thumb small. Size of an ant small.

This may be the result of a shrink ray experiment gone wrong, but it's most likely the natural size of these beings, in which case they probably live in a mouse world. Whatever the case, you can be assured that life for these guys is going to be tough, as every insect is a threat, every step up a staircase is a colossal climb, and nobody ever watches where they're stepping.

lilliputian warriors is a subtrope, for when these guys kick ass despite fitting in the palm of a hand. Keep in mind these aren't the fair folk—fairies already have their own tropes. Regular-sized people who shrink down and then revert to normal size fall under incredible shrinking man; this is for naturally small humanoids. Contrast our giants are bigger, to whom we are the Lilliputians.

Not to be confused with liverpudlians.

  Chara in   The   The dwarves in  Spinning off from the folk examples, the comic  People from the Bottled City of Kandor in the   The tiny marker sniffers in  The inhabitants of Dimension X from  A   In the  One issue of  The Psyches in  The brownies from  The Rhetons in  The  Eddie Murphy's    The stitchpunks in the short film and movie of  Octavius and Jedediah in  The Leafmen and the Boggans from  These guys are pretty common folk heroes around the world: Thumbelina, Tom Thumb, Thumbling and the Japanese Issun-boshi were all said to be about the size of a thumb (who'd have guessed?).

 Jonathan Swift's   In the book  The Helmacrons in      The miniature warriors of   The people in  The 1980s    In one of the   The  Spoofed in the short story   Lindsay Gutteridge's  The Whos down in Whovile, from   Mites, the characters from Nikolai Nosov's   Aside from the occasional naturally small  The littlepeople Hem and Haw in        "Tiny Pants!" by  The Invaders from    The (unnamed) aliens from  The Minish from  In  Issun and his village in   You can visit the actual island of Lilliput in  Some   Shinmyoumaru Sukuna, an Inchling (the same mythological race as Issun above, whose mythological inspiration Issun-Boshi is implied to be her ancestor) plays   In one Treehouse of Horror episode of  The Simpsons successor  The Twillerbees from     One episode of  The Great Gazoo from  Galvans (AKA "Greymatter") from   One episode of the animated series  The Minutians from an episode of  Once     The  The  The   The inhabitants of the city beneath lane five of the Desert Flower Bowling Alley and Arcade Fun Complex in  In 