Alice is an ordinary high-school student. Bob is the school idol who has started to show interest in Alice. Aerithus is a warrior prince from another dimension who has somehow ended up in Alice's life and is turning her world and her emotions upside-down. Which will she choose?

This trope is for any situation where a character (usually but not always the protagonist) is placed in a love triangle situation where he or she must choose between rival suitors where one of the suitors has magic and powers, is non-human, or has some other property that places them firmly in the category of speculative fiction, and the other suitor is an ordinary person. Of course, the "magic" option need not use something called magic. In a science fiction setting, aliens, time travelers, visitors from another dimension or planet, or similar such characters qualify. In a super hero setting, anyone with superpowers would qualify.

When the character making the choices is a muggle, such cases generally represent more than just a choice between persons, but often a red pill, blue pill kind of choice between living a normal life and living one that is exciting and exotic, but unfamiliar and often dangerous. Generally speaking, you can expect the character to go with the exotic love interest, because that is what allows for a more interesting storyline. However, sometimes it will be treated much the same way as a rich suitor, poor suitor plot, with the muggle picking an ordinary life of simple love over all the exotic things the non-muggle can offer them.

Sometimes the Magical option will have distinct disadvantages. We all know power comes at a price, and certain limitations may make it difficult for the protagonist to honestly desire a life with them. Maybe they can't be away from water. Maybe they have no physical presence, or have debilitating effects on those around them. Maybe the protagonist just finds the fact that they're not quite human unsettling. Whatever the issue, it makes the expression of love and lasting commitment a problem. The Muggle, on the other hand, is presumably a lovely person but with no such paranormal limitations. Suddenly they look a lot more enticing.

If the character making the choice is a non-muggle, one can almost invariably expect them to marry the muggle, often in the face of resistance, prejudice and even taboos and prohibitions from their community of fellow fantastic beings.

Compare to betty and veronica and rich suitor, poor suitor. Sometimes overlaps with loves my alter ego and two-person love triangle; themselves subtropes of the secret identity identity.

    Rinko in   Allen, Hitomi, and Van in  In  It is a not infrequent situation in superhero comics, usually with a superhero having to choose between a fellow superhero and a non-powered civilian.

 Some examples from  For a time in the 1980s  When  Crystal of the Inhumans cheated on her husband Quicksilver with a nondescript, non-powered suburbanite.

 After Jean Grey (formerly Marvel Girl) returned from the bottom of Jamaica Bay, Cyclops found himself inexorably drawn to her despite being married. To make matters worse, his wife Madelyne looked just like Jean! (She was later revealed to be Jean's clone and killed off).

 Marlo Chandler, the wife of  Jenny's having to choose between Zot and Woody in  As of the   The love triangle in   The protagonist of   Supernatural  In  Sort of happens in  In the original  Vin in  In  The final season of  The new series of  Continuing the theme in the   And  The second season of    This was the case in the first few episodes of   In    Bob, Jean, and Princess Voluptua in  