A character in a live-action series rendered by puppetry or animatronics. Usually used to create an alien or other non-human character.

Technically, "Muppet" is the walt disney company's  trademark name (a coined name, not a portmanteau of "marionette" and "puppet" as is commonly believed) for the unique brand of puppets created by jim henson. This usage generally occurs in such things as television shows and movies. Other production shops have adapted Henson's techniques, which have revolutionized puppetry. For many people now, Muppet and puppet are practically synonymous.

Henson created a merging of puppetry (using the hands for the mouth movements) and marionettes (in their use of wires and how animated their movements are). Before television, puppetry was a fairly static art. Henson made the Muppets almost hyper-kinetic, putting a lot of energy into the performance. Furthermore, the way the puppets were operated, for example making them look directly at something (typically with a puppeteer's hand directly manipulating the head), gives them a remarkably lifelike appearance. In addition, while puppeteers in previous productions hid behind a structure on screen in keeping with tradition, Henson realized he could just stage his show using the TV screen frame itself in order to hide the operators and focus all attention on the puppets.

Animatronics was also improved by the Jim Henson shop. Animatronics employs a complex series of mechanics to create a creature with much more subtle movements and expressions than a standard puppet, such as blinking eyes or opening gills. A puppeteer may often wear a full body suit and an animatronic head.

Now common in children's shows, Muppets became widespread due to their popularity in Sesame Street, a Henson co-production.

A common sub-type is the hand puppet. For CGI characters, see serkis folk.

In British slang, the word can be an insult, indicating someone who is clueless and incompetent.

Muppets have their own wiki, which can be found here.

If you're looking for the main entry on the Muppets, you can find it here.

