

So you need something. Maybe you need your equipment repaired, maybe life will become so much easier if you have a certain piece of equipment, maybe you need the next item in a chain of deals or perhaps you're outright looking for the next plot coupon. After much effort you track down the only source of this rare good or service (or perhaps try and fail to procure it from other sources) ready for yet another quest or to pay through the nose in exchange...and they're astounded you're so desperate to get your hands on something so easy to get hold of. Occasionally the trope is downplayed, with the item in question being hard to obtain, but granting a high yield (for example a rare ore which you can dig up tonnes of after finding your way to an isolated mine) or something minor compared to the rest of what you get (for example, requiring just a single coin made of a particular alloy or a special magic item in a massive horde) making just one a trivial reward.

This trope is a close relative of both we have those too and worthless yellow rocks. Not only does the person you're addressing have what you're looking for, but they're amazed you had to expend so much effort to find it (or maybe they're aware it's not easy for most people to find, but they have the means to get it easily). In a video game this might be used to lampshade a commonplace rare. Contrast bulk buy only for when the protagonists have more of something than they want.

Remember that someone simply giving away things they have a large amount of doesn't count; it must also be what someone else is searching for. Also known as shaggy dog macguffin.

 Played with in  In the first  A story of Brazilian comic  Gold was so common on   In the  The Counterweight Continent in  In  Two Examples from  In the Cordwainer Smith story  In  When  There's an episode of  In the  In  In a  Foogle Birds are a recurring foe in  Pretty much the point of trade in  In  A variant in  In  Your town in   In  Annihilation amulets in  Used as part of a rant by   It has come up repeatedly in  In the  In   In one of the Three Bears  In the  This will happen quite a lot with food, among other things:

 Coffee, nylon stockings and chewing gum in Britain during the Second World War.

