

Whenever you see a demon, god, or someone or something else otherworldly you'd expect it to be easy to tell if it is a man or a woman. but when he/she/they has qualities of both? or lacks qualities of either? or can change from one to another with neither being the confirmed default? They are otherworldly and sexually ambiguous.There might be reasons why or how the demon, spirit, etc., is a hermaphrodite, can change sex, etc., be it either magical corruption, or the creators didn't want to give the character a definitive sex, so they made them ambiguous. Sometimes it's just a striking detail that reminds the audience that this individual isn't a mundane creature, and that the shape they're in now might just be a form you are comfortable with.

See also no biological sex, hermaphrodite, voluntary shapeshifting and ambiguous gender. May cross over with shapeshifters do it for a change.

 In  Ashura, the god of war from  Apos from  The goddess Kanzeon Bosatsu from  Aleister Crowley of   Envy the shapeshifting homunculus from  The angel that appears in the anime of  Desire from  In    Gozer the Gozerian, the Sumerian god from   In  Larry Niven's  In  In  In  In  In   Mallory from  The Metrons in the  The angels in  Some of the demons in the   Although the Judeo-Christian God is usually referred to by male personal pronouns, this is more convention than canon. Several Biblical verses show God identifying with roles which western culture would generally consider feminine. Most languages (English included) do not have any gender-neutral personal pronouns and God was referred to as "He" because most societies in which the Bible was written were patriarchal.

 Inari Okami, the Shinto God of fertility, rice, agriculture, foxes, industry and worldly success, is generally considered to be neither male nor female, though like YHWH, masculine or feminine aspects are often emphasized depending on the context and the region. This is true for many other Kami as well.

 Angels and demons in Christianity are sometimes considered to be sexless because they don't reproduce in Heaven or Hell and so would not need to be male or female. The Bible always refers to them as male, and "the sons of god," who are generally but not always thought to be angels, sired the  The Egyptian god Hapi is generally considered male (including having one or more wives), but is also pictured with breasts to represent his ability to nurture and feed people (he's a god of the Nile).

 Not surprisingly,    Luna, the main moon-deity of   Accoring to  The Despair Embodied in   In  While all of the Daedra princes (a loose analog of Demon Lords And Archdevils, only with  The Cloud of Darkness from   Minogame from  The Soulthirster,  Uryuoms in     The Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten IV, most famous for trying to change the nation to 