One step below being one of the powers that be. Occasionally shares space with The great gazoo. They usually start out as a power that is but gradually the plot drives them downward.

Mythology often depicted gods as "human, but bigger." Similar emotions, virtues, vices, etc. but with more power. Special effects and global story-telling exposure has expanded the concept. Gods are often humanoid (easier for actors to portray them) and have a number of powers. The difference between them and non-divine characters is they don't have to be "balanced" in terms of other characters.

Typical god powers and traits can include:

       Limited  Attunement to Concept: e.g. Aphrodite the    Interestingly, superman and some of the more powerful flying bricks fulfill most of these requirements, except possibly the worship bit. This depends on how strictly you define worship, of course, since subscribing isn't usually considered the same as tithing. (For rabid fans, subscriptions can total a lot more than 10% of your income!). Then again, Superman does share a setting with actual Physical Gods, most of whom are even stronger still than he is (depending on the writer, of course).

In other fiction, characters who may not strictly be gods may get powers like these simply because, in a place where everyone is a super, then the only way you can really mount a truly serious threat to a world with millions of superpowered civilians is to give the baddies even more absurdly powerful abilities.

Sometimes, a human can become a Physical God, especially if it's possible for said gods to die. These newly minted gods may choose to take up the mantle with solemnity, cackle madly that "a god am i!", or steadfastly say "a god i am not" from lingering sympathy to their human origins.

The existence of a Physical God presents a superficial difficulty to a flat earth atheist; however, the problem can be overcome by distinguishing a Physical God from whatever powers that be might or might not exist in the universe (considering the former to be "merely" ultra-powerful beings not different in principle from anybody else who happens to be immortal and omnipotent, and applying the label "god" only to the latter. The non-trivial difficulty in determining the difference when such beings can only be viewed from a limited human scale is often brushed under the rug). Smarter flat earth atheists will turn into nay theists instead.

Compare powers that be, cosmic entity, reality warper, the omnipotent, eldritch abomination, ultimate life form, anthropomorphic personification, sufficiently advanced alien, abstract apotheosis, and deity of human origin. See also our gods are greater for a more general trope, and humans are cthulhu, for when puny earthlings are seen as this by other creatures. They're usually the center of a physical religion. When all that power amounts to nothing, see god's hands are tied. god job is when a mortal gets to become this.

