

When visiting alien or foreign cultures, some amount of culture clash is inevitable. In fiction, writers are able to take this to almost ridiculous extremes and milk the resulting dramatic tension.

Here's the basic formula: take a society. Give them, as one of their hats, a rigid and/or complex code of manners or tradition they adhere to. Make the consequence of breaking that code dire: death, slavery, imprisonment, declaration of war, loss of a desperately needed supply or alliance they have. Insert the protagonists, usually well meaning but likely to have difficulty complying. If they can get away with asking why the punishment is so severe, the response will often be "what do you mean its not heinous" Or if the custom is particularly lacking in good sense from the outside point of view, well, "nobody ever complained before." Shake well and watch your protagonists squirm.

If the members of the culture in question are hip to the fact that outsiders are prone to stumbling on the rules, they may be nice enough to give a warning or two before bringing the hammer down. Probable good ending: both cultures learn to understand each other better and an aesop is learned about respecting other's differences. Probable bad ending: the crew has to rescue one of their own and make a break for it with the angry mob on their heels.

A sub-trope of culture clash. super trope to fumbling the gauntlet, where the character's innocent action is taken as a challenge to fight. See also: planet of hats, sacred hospitality and peace pipe. Likely to involve invoking the alien non-interference clause.

 The Cascadians of   The    To the humans in the  The wretched beast-men of   In    This trope was the cause of the Terran-Vasudan War in  Subverted in    In the "Where the Buggalo Roam" episode of   In the  When the explorer Vasco da Gama came round Africa for a  A relatively mild example often ensues for new recruits joining the military, particularly in more individualistic cultures where one isn't accustomed to taking orders from arbitrarily appointed superiors and having to place the group before themselves. Not to mention little things like 