Aliens come from another planet. Their entire culture, history, and even biology could be radically different from that of us Earth-folk. It should not be surprising if they are so different that we can't comprehend them at all.

Fortunately, though, it turns out that aliens are really just humans with some bits glued on. Same with their ideology: they're just a thinly veiled stand-in for whoever the public is politically afraid of at the moment, or whoever in Earth history the writers want to anvilize the viewers about. Basically, this is a planet of hats where the "hat" is some feared human ideology.

All but the best writers end up giving in to this to some extent. Some actively revel in it.

If a show is lucky enough to be in production when the public's #1 scary ideology shifts, there's a good chance that we'll see the aliens switch dogmas as well. That, or a new race will show up and supplant them as the top threat.

Hybrids are also common, probably because the writers have only a passing understanding of what the popular scary ideology is really all about. Note how often political pundits on both sides compare their enemies to nazis in recent years to see that this extends beyond fiction.

Slightly more self-aware writers will do a bit of lampshade hanging by giving the aliens trappings so obviously derived from the source that you can't help but notice, like putting them in nazi uniforms. Compare master race, for a cultural group who are not necessarily aliens but still see themselves as superior. A sub-trope of aliens are bastards.

Scary Dogmatic Aliens generally take on one of a hand-full of forms:

Among the oldest forms of the trope, aliens are regimented, efficient, and full of xenophobic hate that won't be sated until they've wiped every single one of us from existence. Their leader is a charismatic psychopath who rules with an iron fist. Often obsessed with genetic purity, with the cute little hypocrisy that their leader isn't genetically pure.

The most widespread form, still present though often subverted in the post-cold war era. Everyone is the same, individuality is a capital crime. Heavy emphasis on assimilation, which which can either be literal (with them wanting to transmogrify humans into more of their own), or allegorical (e.g. brainwashing or body-snatching). the virus may fall into this category.

The most recent evolution of the trope. It's a step forward that speculative fiction can now depict alien religion as extending beyond "advanced = atheistic; primitive = fooled into worshiping anyone with a pda," but it's also a step backward in that the new category of alien religion is more often than not just a thinly veiled allegory of the most tragic and extreme forms of human anti-social devotion. the alien as religious fundamentalist hates humans because their god/gods told them to.For maximum points, it should be possible, even likely, that if the alien god does exist, it really isn't averse to humans at all, but is being misrepresented by the alien leadership. To really stick a fork in it, it occasionally turns out that humans are supposed to be the aliens' "true" gods, according to the correct interpretation of their religion.

The oldest form of this trope (dating back to h. g. wells' The War of the Worlds), but generally quite similar to aliens as Nazis, roaming the cosmos in search of new lands to subjugate and new prizes to claim in the name of the Empire or for their own personal glory. Your subjugation will occasionally be in order to civilize you, but more often will be because might makes right, and those too weak to make a stand don't deserve a say in their own fates. An Alien as Conquistador is likely to be a proud warrior race guy. Can mix easily with other types.

The entire "suddenly, vastly technologically superior anthropomorphic aliens landed and life as we knew it forever went to hell in a handbasket" seems to be so everlastingly popular in America due to its own history being just that, except that the invading aliens, not the unfortunate current residents, carried the day. For much the same reason, Japanese anime's aliens have a army of monsters of the week and practice gunboat diplomacy by packing the power to flatten entire cities in one go, while Russian scifi tends to focus on exploring and colonizing incomprehensible, faintly oriental, and technologically backward aliens, and not vice versa. Every culture's colonization-related alien stories reflect its own historical experiences, whether in wishing to repeat past achievements, recalling past humiliations and horrors in fear of the old adage that history repeats itself, or in apprehension that "do unto others..." promises a long-overdue Karmic backlash any day now.

Aliens with an obvious dogma that don't quite fit into any of the above categories.

Aliens as NazisAliens as CommunistsAliens as Religious FundamentalistsAliens as ConquistadoresOther