Any law that requires super heroes (or, really, anyone with superpowers) to be registered with the government in a national database (including the name and residence of each hero's secret identity) or face penalties. This was codified with the marvel comics' X-Men in the form of the "Mutant Registration Act", where it provided a metaphor for discussing racial and/or communist themes. Since then, it has been used and re-used.

While sometimes the act can take the benevolent, unobtrusive form of a government-sponsored hero secret service complete with hero insurance, in most cases the law is an antagonist in and of itself, whose only purpose is to prohibit superheroes from using their powers recklessly (if at all), or in the worst case scenario, is the first step to full-scale super human trafficking. Of course, no supervillain in their right mind would bother obeying the terms of this law, however registration would allow for identification of Supers that later become villainous or the prosecution of Supers that attempt to conceal their powers with the assumption that such an act would be later used for criminal or nefarious purposes.

A registration act often allows the "outlaws" to know in advance which potential victims possess or do not possess super powers or limit a Supers' ability to defend themselves. When this trope is invoked enforcement of the act often permits the supervillains to do even more damage than usual as potential heroes are inhibited from acting freely. The situation is often resolved when the 'real' heroes defy the act by stopping the big bad the registered crimefighters missed, prompting a reset button hit on the whole thing.

Even though the law is meant to approximate just how the government would react to superpowered vigilantes showing up in real life, it's not often that the law comes about purely as a result of normal civil processes, intelligent debate, or genuine public outrage. This is because comic books, like most serial works, operate on rule of fun, being escapist fiction where the stakes depend on one lone individual or a small group, which is hampered when your favorite character punches a clock and answers to the man. Exposing the act as the latest plot of some supervillain makes it easier to hit the reset button because status quo is god.

Is probably best addressed in universes with a system of psychic or telepathic powers where unidentified users would represent an extreme invasion of privacy risk let alone issues with business transactions or games that involve use of secret information.

Actually implementing such a system is of course a tricky proposition, given the fact your targets can do things like erase your memories or blow up tanks by pointing at them, and depends on whether you're registering super humans or super heroes. In real life identification of a super abusing their powers could result in forfeiture of their property, termination of their employment and general suspension of their normal relationships and interactions if they are branded as a wanted felon without any need to apprehend or imprison the suspect. Of course in fictional worlds, villains may not have a good work-life balance needed for this punishment to stick.

Sometimes, superhero fiction writers may bring this trope up as means of creating an ethical dilemma within the superhero community and thus, deconstructing white and black morality and opening things up to grey and gray morality. lawful good superheroes will often try to work with the law to see what is best for the public and superheroes alike, although some may venture into the knight templar territory at worst. neutral good superheroes will be the most divisive in the issue, as some superheroes will raise concern whether or not the law will allow the superhero community to continue to do what is right for everyone, or if the law will allow lawfully inclined supervillains to abuse the said law. chaotic good superheroes who disregard all laws will obviously oppose the superhuman registration act anyways.

For policing super-humans: A: Create  B: Recruit For policing super heroes: C:  D: Create a  E: Don't make a big deal out of it; trying to force a large number of superhumans into doing something is a pre-emptive measure. Instead, wait until you have a suspect safely under the 