Out in the reaches of space, an alien race exists that has developed far beyond any human civilization. Said aliens will believe they are justified in killing or enslaving humans due to their higher intelligence. They don't necessarily hate humans, they just believe that humans are so insignificant as to be unworthy of moral consideration. Bonus points if they draw parallels between the way they treat humans and the way humans treat other animals.

The purpose of this trope is often to question the attitudes that justify the exploitation of animals, the environment, and/or other cultures. Works that use this trope ask the question, "what if there was someone who treated you the way you treat those you have power over?" In particular, this trope often draws inspiration from the white supremacist attitudes that were used to justify slavery, the actions of European colonial empires, and America's westward expansion, to say nothing of the nazis.

Not every alien species that victimizes humans fits this trope. As a guideline, please note that this trope applies if either:

 A character in the work articulates this trope, such as the aliens explicitly stating that their superiority frees them from moral considerations; or

 It is shown that the aliens Overlaps heavily with social darwinist, type three. Contrast alien non-interference clause and benevolent alien invasion. See also can't argue with elves. When these attitudes are applied to fellow members of one's species, then you're looking at a self-styled master race. A species that practices this trope is probably not a superior species. Stories that practice this trope heroically never seem to touch upon the argument that if a superior species treats its inferiors this way, said species is probably more of a master race.

 In   The comic book version of  The  The film  Similar to the  Megatron (and probably the other Decepticons) in   In  Harry Turtledove's  The Strong Races are this to the Weak ones in   In just about any story featuring vampires, the vampires consider themselves to be on top of the food chain, and consider humans their prey.

 In  The dragons from Robin Hobb's     On the rare occasion that the  In  The title character in  In the  The aliens in  In the  In the  The Gua in  The Observers from  In  The Eldar in  In  The fal'Cie from  Baron Alexander from  In  The High Breed in the  Humans have this trope with our treatment of animals. 