Transhumans, sometimes called Posthumans, are people who have exceeded the normal mental and physical abilities. The "how" that happened can be anything from magic to science, the only thing that's common among all of them is that they are better than was possible before.

A positive portrayal of transhumanism generally places a work on the Enlightenment side of the romanticism versus enlightenment spectrum while a negative portrayal or conspicuous absence of it does the opposite. In fact, most popular media deals with transhumanism and anything relating to it as being 'dehumanizing' or even comparable to eugenics with little chance for anything different. Thus, it has become a cliche that transhumanists are sci fi nazis or evilutionary biologists with a god complex, even though it has an equal potential to be used for good.Generally, anarcho-Cyber Punk writers focus on the evils of Transhumanism. So do religious moral guardians, when ironically, many religions espouse a transhumanist plane of existence free from the sinfulness of flesh. On the other hand, transhumanists and utilitarians themselves focus on the benefits.

The main reason why Transhumanism's opponents tend to be very uncomfortable about it, however, is because of the implied radical alteration of what it means to be human. It is therefore assumed by said opponents that, while the idea does have potential for positive outcomes, if there was to be a negative outcome, then it probably would not be reversible.

Even though this trope is called transhuman, it's not actually limited to humans. Other species or entities that are enhanced count as well.

The word 'transhuman' is actually found in legitimate scientific and political debates far more often than in fiction, although this has began to change in recent years courtesy of authors such as charles stross, alastair reynolds and greg egan.

In spite of this, being transhuman encompasses many of other science fiction staples with their distinct tropes:

                                    

For some of the abilities a transhuman might have, see stock superpowers. See also no transhumanism allowed. This may be used as an aspect of a cyberpunk or post-cyberpunk setting.

