In real life, robots are our friends. They perform tasks that human beings find either too dangerous or too boring. And they are designed with an eye toward efficiency, toward form following function. There's a reason a car-building robot has one big swivel arm. There's a reason a bomb-disposing robot has tank treads. All to better perform their intended function.

In fiction, however, things are different. In fiction, technology is evil, a.i. is a crapshoot, and the robots will always rise up and destroy us. And in fiction, engineers seem to design their robots with this in mind. Sometimes a robot is not designed for efficiency. Sometimes a robot is designed just to be scary.

The Unnecessarily Creepy Robot is one such robot. It's deliberately designed to be scary, with little to no regard to its intended purpose. Sure, the characters may say it's only a simple maintenance robot, but does it have to look like a giant mechanical spider? Sure, it's just a mining droid, but does it have to have sinister glowing red eyes? and who gave it a laser, anyway? Why even design a robot that looks like that?

Drama. And rule of scary. May also be justified if the robot is designed with Psychological Warfare functions. Additionally, insect-like forms are actually very practical for many kinds of labor (as seen with social insects such as ants or bees) but humans find them creepy due to associating bugs with vermin.

Robots tap into our primal fear of automation. The fear of being replaced and/or destroyed by a machine. And it's all the more dramatic when a robot is scary looking. When your robot snaps and turns on you, it's all the more frightening to be chased by that giant spider, to be stared down by those red eyes, to be zapped by that laser.

The Unnecessarily Creepy Robot can take many forms. It may tap into the uncanny valley, being too human-like for comfort. Or it may be vaguely humanoid, but with some addition or subtraction that makes it unsettling. It may also resemble an animal that humans have an instinctive revulsion to, like a insect or a reptile. Or it may have a design so far removed from anything recognizably organic that it makes you wonder how anyone could come up with it.

Whatever the form it takes, the Unnecessarily Creepy Robot has this as its constant: the creepy design is, at best, only vaguely related to its intended function. Given what characters in-universe say it was designed to do, it doesn't have to look like it does. It was meant to be creepy first, efficient second. Because a robot will always run amok, and when it does, it will be all the more terrifying to have it chasing you.

Please note: this trope applies to intentionally creepy robots - that is, intended by the creator of the work of fiction. Lower budget movies and tv shows may feature robots that are accidentally creepy, due to a special effects failure. That is not an example of this Trope.

See cute machines for the opposite of this Trope. Super trope of skele bot 9000.

 Every robot in   Played straight and then later justified in-universe in the   The   The robots of  Depending on how you define "robot" (ie - artificial life form, construct, etc.),   The classic  Somewhat justified in-universe with the Necron from  Chortlebot in   In  Ultron on   Real Life military tech averts this trope for the most part, with an emphasis on functionality rather than intimidation. Drones like the  As mentioned above, the current trend in robotics is a move toward designs based on insects. Focus is shifting away from complex machines capable of complex tasks, and more toward smaller, simpler units programmed with a simple set of commands. The insectoid design definitely is more efficient for certain tasks, like moving over uncertain terrain, and some have theorized that future space exploration will be done by means of insect-like autonomous drones. So they are, in a sense,   There are many creators of animatronic robots that invoke this trope.

 Inverted in the case of 