Some characters have it rough, especially those that get infected with a viral transformation that gave them a horror hunger for human. They may be forced to feed on humans more than they'd like, even becoming good at it, much to their own shame. Or they may try to be a vampire refugee or friendly neighborhood vampire, werewolf, or whatever, and only feed on non-sentient things.Then they make a muggle friend, maybe even with love interest potential! This is all sorts of awesome since it helps reconnect them to humanity and makes their existence bearable, maybe even allowing a semblance of a normal life/relationship.

There is, however, the obvious problem that they are now underfeeding and spending a lot of time with someone who is directly below them on the food chain. things will only get worse before something goes horribly wrong. What usually happens is they suffer a brief bout of glamour failure when the horror hunger is strongest, they'll reflexively extend their fangs and claws, start seeing in vein-o-vision, or put on their game face. However they'll manage to retract them through sheer willpower before their new  friend/love interest notices... most of the time.

Where they usually fail to maintain the masquerade is when facing a situation where their new friend is bleeding and they're desperately hungry, and to avoid attacking their friend they give in to the lesser urge for the spilled blood and start lapping it up. Or to have their friend show them a cross/garlic/open flame and for them to recoil in horror before hissing and fleeing (when not spontaneously combusting). At that point, the gig is up and they usually stay away in shame at being exposed or for fear of losing control completely.

On the bright side, the friend does usually prove to be very loyal and finds them afterwards, and decides to take their chances by remaining close.

Contrast emergency transformation. Compare frequently-broken unbreakable vow. Often somewhere in the middle or low end of the sliding scale of vampire friendliness.

