There is an invisible value placed on the existence of non-human characters in fiction, compared to the value of the life of a human. Killing/destroying one may or may not be the same thing as killing a human. The difference between not even human on one end of the scale and not quite human on the other can be a very fine one, and where a series chooses to draw that line can vary as wildly as the writers' imaginations.

Intelligence and emotions, and whether the character in question is actually alive in the conventional sense, are usually what dictate the morality of the situation. But more often than not, it's based upon how human-like the character is (an issue further explored in this blog post). The sliding scale usually goes something like this:

This is often one of the reasons why humans are the real monsters. It can get especially awkward, however, when it happens in works of fiction where many of the heroes aren't human either, leading to uncomfortable fridge logic.

In general, the more thought that is put into the script, the more value nonhuman life will have. This trope is often used as a metaphor for the real life issues of animal and human rights. See also that poor plant, of the people, zombie advocate, inhumanable alien rights and van helsing hate crimes. The flipside of sorts is what measure is a non-super?. Related tropes are uncanny valley, they would cut you up, and emergency transformation. Contrast with androids are people, too.

For cases in which this treatment applies to characters who are human, see what measure is a mook?, moral myopia, immortal life is cheap, and a million is a statistic.

This also tends to happen in a metafictional way: many animated series' and video games can get away with horrific violence and onscreen deaths that the censors would've put a quick stop to (or at least given the work a higher rating) had the victims been Human. Robots, the Undead, and the like can be brutally impaled, dismembered, and decapitated onscreen, using this trope on the moral guardians even if the work itself averts or subverts the trope in-universe.

                 