

Parties are a classic choice for music videos - after all, nothing says that a band is fun like having them turn a house full of dullards into bacchanalian pleasure seekers. But only the most awesome gatherings turn the phrase "party animal" into a literal description, so any music video director worth his salt knows that if you're filming a drunken party you have to put at least one person in an animal suit. Bonus points if they start a fight with some ordinary revellers. Even more bonus points if they're actually in a fursuit instead of cheap looking rental costumes!

Note that this doesn't have to be based around house parties. As the number of people having fun in a non-club area increases, so does the probability that someone will somehow turn up in a fuzzy costume.

  Women  A man in an animal suit gets punched in  Moby's "Beautiful" takes this to the logical extreme by having the  DJ Format's "We Know Something You Don't Know" is a true classic of the genre.

  "Clothes Off" by Gym Class Heroes. This one features a dance-off with the suitors, who turn out to be  "I Could Be An   "Dear Maria, Count Me In" by  The video for Groove Armada's "Song 4 Mutya" features a British music festival with about a half dozen people dressed in various animal costumes, one of which ends up hooking up with one of the main charecters.

 German band OOMPH! have a man in a creepy rabbit suit in their video "Labyrinth".

 In Michaël Youn's parody rap music video "Trankillement", there is a guy in a white rabbit suit. Youn punches him in the end with boxing gloves.

 Arcturus' live DVD   Subverted in  Jamie Foxx appears in a panda costume in his "Blame It" video.

   The video for  Beck's "1000 BPM" video has people in bear costumes. And a rather bizarre concert performance of "High Five" has people in horse masks.

 Wiley's "Wearing My Rolex" is a fairly strange example: The whole video consists of female dancers in fox costumes roving the city streets at night... and, at one point, raiding trash cans for food. Supposedly the artist himself was supposed to be in there somewhere, but he hated the concept so much that  The video for The Pains of Being Pure at Heart's "Higher than the Stars" features a woman who gets invited to a party that turns out to be full of fursuiters.

 The video for "Savior" by  "Hey Baby, Here's That Song You Wanted" by Blessthefall has a video that's kind of a take off of  Related -  Even a  The  The video for   The video for "The Fox" by Ylvis starts at a house party where everyone except the singer is dressed up as an animal. From the verse, one can infer that he intended to dress up as well, but is stymied by his lack of knowledge of the creature.  The video for   The dog suit from   In the  In  In adverts for UK teen drama  Promos for comedian George Lopez's new series consist of hordes of people gathering when they hear he's having a party. Among the crowds are someone in a bunny suit, and a man with feathered wings strapped to his back (who  In the Nickelodeon crossover special    