The High School Dance, especially on television directed toward a pre-teen audience, shows these teen events at their most watered-down and dated. If it's a theme dance, then everyone will dress up. It's quite possible that some sort of awkward "boy has to ask a girl as his date" scenario will crop up at some point. For extra drama, it can be a Sadie Hawkins dance (named after a character in Lil Abner) where—gasp!—the girl asks the guy out. There will almost always be colourful streamers, a punch bowl full of something orange, and happy-go-lucky kids dancing in the most parentally-approved manner possible to the most generic (and, of course, parent-safe) dance/party music ever.

There's certainly never any bumping or grinding at one of these. However, unless it's a comedy with middle school-aged kids, it's unlikely to go boys' side/girls' side.

Also, you won't see anybody sitting alone or just standing around and talking with their friends (unless, of course, it's one of the main characters). Literally everybody is dancing and flailing around throughout the dance's entire however-many-hour duration, with nary a hint of exhaustion or sweating.

Since many dances nowadays don't feature refreshments or proper "dates", the High School Dance is often an unintentional example of writers harkening back to the era they grew up in. The beautiful all along plots always end at this type of dance. Homecoming/Prom King/Queen is usually a big deal as well, especially with the alpha bitch involved. Also, be on the lookout for that shady character who always manages to spike the punch.

If this is a teen movie, the climax has to happen at a big dance.

This trope can be an example of truth in television, however, since some real-life high school dances contain elements of this (mostly just with regards to decorations and refreshments). Customs are always evolving, and while Hollywood remains two decades behind, movies made in the 2030s will represent what's going on right now. (Sorry for the delay.)

Compare school festival, which uses different window dressing but often fills the same storytelling niche in Japanese works.

