Par-tay! Par-tay! Par-tay!

A mainstay of the classic teen comedy movie, but usually seen at least once in every sitcom that has a teenaged character, this is the inevitable result of mixing one or more teenagers with a house devoid of parental figures. It almost always results in wall-to-wall teens, loud music, underage drinking, and property damage. (And, in R-rated movies, a lot of sex in the bedrooms and/or bathrooms.) Sometimes this is by design, and sometimes a small party for a couple of friends spirals completely out of control.

A popular variation of this is that the host only invited over two or three friends and the party just shows up out of nowhere. Someone they did invite brought one more person, and so did another. Then someone they never met shows up at the door. Fast forward ten minutes and a college football team shows up with a keg and there's somehow full disco lighting in the living room. the host will still get in trouble for this, and the show may still play it as an aesop. Another variation is when two teens live in the same house, and one plans a party without consulting the other, who has to study for a test or do something else where peace and quiet is necessary. The second teen usually will not find out until they come home to see the party already underway.

The Wild Teen Party usually experiences at least one, and often more, of the following complications:

 The parents call home in the middle of the party "to check on things". The teen hosts must then either quiet the crowd down for the duration of the call, or come up with a believable explanation for the noise in the background. Even if the teens succeed in pulling off a perfect deception, the parents  Party crashers of various stripes. If it's not the varsity football team and their entourage descending on a party to which they weren't invited, it'll be punks or bikers running wild, trashing the place and carrying off cheerleaders.

 Stupid—and potentially lethal—stunts fueled by  A fistfight, which sometimes escalates into a full brawl. If there's a picture window, someone will almost certainly go through it. A rare family keepsake like an urn, or better yet, one containing Grandma's ashes, will be stolen, destroyed or used to mix cocktails.

 A fire, flood or other disaster.

 If the party is wild enough, the police will show up to shut it down — usually just minutes before the parents return.

 If the party is even wilder than that, a film crew will come to tape it for a TV special.

 A character gets incredibly drunk with bad results. Usually a character who doesn't normally drink, but is pressured into it/doesn't realize the drinks are spiked, to give the  The most generic and repetitive "party/dance music" imaginable.

 Literally The party then ends in either of two different ways:

 It peters out by the next morning, leaving the house (and sometimes the yard) looking like a war zone, populated by unconscious (and sometimes insufficiently-clothed) teens. The hosts must then somehow clean up and repair damages before the parentals return and have them all Or

 The parents come home unexpectedly while the party is in full swing. After a However it runs, with whatever complications and ending, the Wild Teen Party usually ends in an aesop about responsibility, maturity, and — if the hosts were caught — telling the truth to one's parents.

See also youth is wasted on the dumb (which may occur at this), a party also known as an orgy, and what did i do last night? Take note that it doesn't necessarily have to deal with teenagers, but they are the most common occurrences of the trope. The subject of a walk on the wild side episode will sometimes throw one of these.

truth in television, of course (except for the last complication of literally everyone dancing and acting crazy) — as any news reporter who wants to take a pop at facebook will tell you. Moreover, "teen partying" is now listed as a reason for certain movies getting the ratings they have.



Oh no, man! your parents are here!