This character, simply put, loves everyone. Loves them with a deep, spiritual love that means they will shake heaven and earth, destroy gods and planets, bring nations to their knees, etc. for the person they just met yesterday. They will believe the best of everyone, and constantly give someone a second chance (though they will defeat the big bad). They repay cruelty with kindness and anger with calm. They are the ones who will suffer for the sins of their loved ones. Most people think they're insane, but somehow they pull it off. Even mary sue and marty stu are impressed.

The empathic weapon trusts them completely, as does every animal they meet. Their every step causes flowers to bloom. Their circle of friends are in awe of them, if not somewhat in love with them. They'll even attract an anti-hero or two who will stick around so they can figure out what drugs this person is taking — and where they can get some. In their hands the power of love and the power of friendship can be an awesome force, they may be the standard bearer for the message that you are not alone and if anything can redeem a person against the odds by showing them the light of goodness, it will probably be the all loving hero.

On the sliding scale of idealism versus cynicism, All Loving Hero is a heavily idealistic character. Even in a dark world, they are ideal. They will always say silly rabbit, cynicism is for losers! and inspire hope. In the hands of a bad writer, the character can easily be mutated into a mary sue.

In terms of the four loves, All Loving Hero is Agape, or Unconditional Love for All, personified. However, by no means is the character exempt from the other three loves.

the fool is sometimes the embryonic state of All Loving Hero doubled as the idiot hero. A magnetic hero has the intangible quality of earning respect and followers that some All Loving Hero characters do but without needing the "love and forgive everyone" part. An All Loving Hero who takes their idealism too far into facepalm-worthy idiocy (like seriously trying to trade the artifact of doom if the villain promises not to hurt anyone) may lapse into stupid good or lawful stupid. If such a character is still messianic but do have some more realistic flaws or moments in which they're not so above it all, you're likely to be in front of a broken messiah.

The protagonist in a white man's burden story will often be All Loving Hero. For the character who only thinks they're All Loving Hero, see the love freak. the cutie shares a lot of the All Loving Hero's characteristic personality type, but isn't as much of a paragon of idealism and may or may not have their overpowering charisma. Similarly, the pollyanna has the All Loving Hero's optimism and good heart, but doesn't have the same kind of charisma or deep spiritualism.

sub-trope to ideal hero. Compare martyr without a cause, the paragon, the heart, incorruptible pure pureness, purity sue, love you and everybody, nice guy. This trope is not about Jesus-analogs; that's messianic archetype. While they and All Loving Hero sometimes overlap, a character with the messianic archetype can be far-flung from being All Loving Hero in mind and behavior. Contrast dark messiah, which can stand in opposition to this but is more messianic archetype + anti-hero as well as misanthrope supreme (although a more anti-villain version may have been a former All Loving Hero, who, came to believe that the only way to truly save everyone was taking extreme measures). dueling messiahs is what happens when those two come to a head.

In the context of methods of climax fulfillment, this may be referred to as a "Love Hero". May overlap with for happiness as a character motivation.

