A spinoff of the Shin Megami Tensei JRPG series for the playstation 2, divided into two parts. Developed by atlus, the first game was released in Japan in 2004 with the second following in 2005.All is not well in the realm of the Junkyard, a wartorn land living under blackened skies and perpetual rain. An endless war is being fought between six Tribes struggling for dominance over the Junkyard. The Karma Temple, a neutral party that moderates the war, has decreed that the tribe who defeats all the others to control every sector of the Junkyard shall be awarded the ultimate prize: the right to ascend to Nirvana, a mythical paradise free of war or strife.The Embryon Tribe, led by the calm and silent Serph, is locked in a stalemate with the nearby Vanguards Tribe. During one of their skirmishes, they encounter a mysterious egg-shaped relic that neither side can identify. Neither Tribe acknowledges ownership of the device, and both demand the other remove it or risk considering it as provocation for war. Before they can act, the relic explodes, sending out beams of light that pierce the bodies of the combatants and transform them into bloodthirsty demons. Regaining their senses and awakening to a bloodbath, Serph and the Embryon investigate the crater left by the relic and discover a young girl with black hair and no identifying Tag Ring.Soon afterwards, the Karma Temple issue a new decree: that the Tribes must use their new-found demonic power- known as "Atma"- to break the stalemate of the Junkyard and devour their competition. They also add a new condition: that the winning Tribe must capture and present the black-haired girl to the Karma Temple in order to be allowed into Nirvana. But demonic strength was not the only thing granted to the inhabitants of the Junkyard; they have also awakened a new power called "emotion".The members of the Embryon are: Serph: Has silver hair. The  Heat: Has  Argilla:  Gale: Has green hair. An  Cielo:  Sera: The The second game follows directly from the events of the first. The Embryon have triumphed and ascended to Nirvana. however, what they find there is not paradise, but a new hell in which the rays of a blackened sun have turned the entire population of the world into stone statues. The only survivors are those who live underground or under the thumb of the Karma Society. To make things worse, Sera is their prisoner and Heat has turned sixth ranger traitor on you. Fortunately, two new members join the Embryon: Roland:  Fred: The The two games are mostly dungeon crawlers with bits of plot driving the action in-between. The combat system marks the return of the Press Turn system from Shin Megami Tensei III: Nocturne. Each character can set up to eight skills, and unlike Nocturne any skill that has been learned is retained permanently. Skills are learned by buying "Mantra" from Karma Terminals and earning enough Atma Points to complete them. By learning one Mantra, advanced Mantra of that type are unlocked. Hunt skills can be used to greatly increase the amount of Atma Points harvested from an enemy at the risk of developing a stomachache and gaining none.a save game from ''digital devil saga'' can be carried over to ''digital devil saga 2'' to gain additional bonuses.There is also a five-volume series of novels from 2011 written by Yu Godai called Quantum Devil Saga: Avatar Tuner that ties in to the story of the games. Surprisingly, they are being officially released outside of Japan, with the first volume being released at some point in July 2014.The duology was first announced to be released on the Playstation Network in 2012 for Europe, but complications with emulating the games properly led the project to being delayed. On May 20, 2014, the first game was released on the Playstation Network as a ps2 Classic in North America, with the European version finally being released on June 4, 2014. The second game was released on June 10, 2014 in North America and on June 11 in Europe.the character sheet can be found here                                                                                                                                                            