A character, almost always female and the heroine of the piece, is shown to be almost supernaturally innocent, sweet, altruistic, or any combination thereof, by the way that all manner of wild forest creatures flock to her. Deer will shyly eat out of her hand, chipmunks will frolic at her feet, and birds will alight on her finger, shoulder or head (and not void their bowels while doing so). Occasionally, a male is used due to St. Francis of Assisi being the patron saint of animals, in which case the character is rather shown to be wise, calm and kind-hearted. As for the animals, they will all be cute in most examples.

Any other person approaching will break the spell and send the timid woodland animals fleeing, but not before they witness the supernatural wonder of her loving heart in action.

Sometimes the heroine has such influence over the wild creatures that they will perform small tasks for her. In the case of gods or saints, flowers will spring up at their feet.

Some works acknowledge that the ability to befriend any living thing could be a lot more badass than it seems. It's easy to forget that the same princess whose singing summons an entire forest full of animals could, if she so chooses, send her animal friends to beat the tar out of you. Squirrels bite and scratch, birds peck, deer kick, and heaven help you if she befriended a bear. Being Friend To All Living Things will sometimes also mean the person is a fluffy tamer, in which case they're even friends to snarling, terrifying living things.

This usually does not extend to always chaotic evil species, and virtually never towards the villain. Sometimes it does, though, developing some very interesting hero-villain interactions.

This is often parodied. If the parody is clearly referencing the disney animated canon examples below, it falls under disney creatures of the farce, and the examples should go there. Note that, while friend to all children sounds similar, it isn't necessarily the same thing—and, unlike this, is about just as likely to be a male trait as a female one.

This is a frequent attribute of the all-loving hero and princess classic. With females, this may be related to the myth that only a virgin girl may approach a unicorn.

In fan fiction, this is an early warning sign of a particularly blatant purity sue, being tricky to play well in a fanfic. This goes double if they also strike up an immediate friendship with characters like Tinker Bell, i.e. those who, in canon, are at best distrustful of and at worst violent towards newcomers.

Some truth in television in that a number of studies suggest animals prefer women to men because of their softer voices and gentler demeanour.

A sub-trope of nature lover.

A sister trope to green thumb, fluffy tamer (a friend to dangerous living things), nature hero (especially a female one).

Compare cloud cuckoo lander, licked by the dog.

Contrast evil-detecting dog, enemy to all living things, not good with people, animals hate him, cruella to animals.

