This is a character who is completely and utterly incorruptible, often in a world with grey and gray morality or black and gray morality. The natural bane of the corrupter.

While the people around them can be tempted by power, fame, sex, money, or love, this character is immune to succumbing to temptations. More rounded characters may feel the temptation and still resist. They will always do the right thing for the greater good, if not necessarily the nice thing.

Even if they're in a crapsack world, they'll never lose their moral compass or idealism. Even having to engage in morally ambiguous acts, such as deceiving someone for a good cause, appears as dirty business to them. They greet fame with think nothing of it, and often tell people to keep the reward; working for the glory hound causes, at most, mild annoyance. what you are in the dark poses no difficulties to them. If they are tortured, they will endure. They will even — reluctantly — step aside and let others be more hero than thou, for good cause. If the character can manage to succeed in spite of everything, they will likely have earned their happy ending.

Moral conflict in such a character, or between two such characters, is possible, but is driven by a conflict between two moral principles. One argues for mercy - or that justice in this case will harm innocents; another may attempt to enforce justice, arguing that in the long run, knowing justice will be done to prevent harm to more innocents. While they are unlikely to slander in any circumstance, some will let a lie or half-truth stand to prevent harm; others will tell the truth and damn the consequences.

Often, this is a key element of an idiot hero, the ace, the cape, all-loving hero and the pollyanna. Heroes like these are often sneered at as being unrealistic or old-fashioned or naive when compared to anti heroes - and regardless of whether they actually are. They are likely to respond that it's better than giving up.

A flaw in this mindset is they might not partake in the daily ethical compromises others make, find it difficult to interact with the rest of society, and thus be a socially-awkward hero. They may also use their belief (if they hold one) in the fundamental goodness of humanity as basis to offer second chances to people who would abuse it or reach out to help people who they should really be running away from. Ironically, a certain brand of anti hero can approach this type. When writing them, take care to develop their personalities or they risk becoming a purity sue.

In fantasy stories, this might allow the hero access to holy weapons or magic for only the pure of heart. Might lead to a hundred percent adoration or heroism rating. Be wary that they might be too good for this sinful earth. Also very likely to be a celibate hero — this is one of the cases where a man is not a virgin does not apply.

This is what the knight templar and the well-intentioned extremist tend to think they are.

See also honor before reason and good is not dumb. Contrast pure is not good. This is the trope the wide-eyed idealist aims for and falls short of reaching. This character is the exact opposite of the complete monster, while the Complete Monster is pure evil and never is redeemed, the Incorruptible Pure Pureness is pure goodness and never falls into malicious and jerkass tendencies.

