So Square Enix and Disney walk into a bar...A series of action rpg games, co-produced by Squaresoft (now square enix) and disney, directed by Final Fantasy character designer tetsuya nomura, and starring characters from both companies. It's basically ff meets disney (with some of The World Ends with You and The Bouncer thrown into the mix).Kingdom Hearts started out as the ultimate crossover game: a fun, dynamic game with platforming elements and a solid plot. The first installment was followed by a number of sequels, all of which provided retcon moments for previous games and added loads and loads of characters. The series is known for its memorable scenes, its Disney and Square fanservice, its elegant fighting system and its balanced difficulty level. At the same time, more recent installments are infamous for having one hell of an intertwined plot, spread across many different games on 6 (soon to be 8) different consoles... which can get really confusing if you don't come at it systematically, and even then there's no guarantee that you're going to understand all of it.Sora is a young boy living a peaceful but boring life on an island with his best friends riku and kairi. This is until the day his world is engulfed by the heartless, an eldritch species that feed on the hearts of innocent people and literally consume entire worlds. Sora is sucked through a portal and winds up in Traverse Town, a crossroads world that has become the refuge of those who have lost their worlds to the Heartless. As he begins to search for his missing friends, sora is granted the mysterious keyblade: the only thing capable of closing the gaps that the heartless are using to invade the worlds.With the aid of Donald Duck and Goofy, two royal knights searching for their missing king, Sora must travel to all of the different worlds in the multiverse and use the Keyblade to lock them safely away from the Heartless and those who plot to use the Heartless to further their own ends. Meanwhile Riku, having also ended up in Traverse Town, becomes obsessed with rescuing kairi at all costs and is tempted by the same power of darkness that Sora is trying to seal, setting up the two best friends for a fateful confrontation.As Sora and Riku grapple with their newfound powers and responsibilities, an ever-expanding mythology begins to unfold around the legendary kingdom hearts: the source of all hearts and the goal of many an antagonist.The series contains appearances by characters and locations from the following games, films and franchises. Labeled after each is which game it appears in, abbreviated, and its role. (w) for "world" means you visit the location and can explore. (c) for "character" means only that characters from that franchise show up, whether in the form of a summon, or you meet them in person. (r) for "reference" means merely that the franchise is referenced in some way, such as art or architecture, or the world shows up in a non-interactive form.