Known as mahou shoujo ("magical girl") in Japanese, or just majokko ("witch-girl"). Magical Girls are empowered by various means with fantastic powers that both assist and complicate their lives, but manage to persevere despite this.

no matter how hard this may be for the western world to believe, Magical Girls have high crossover popularity in different demographics with some minor but appropriate design modifications, and make up a sizable portion of both shojo and bishoujo fandom.

A super trope to:

   magical girl warriors arguably have the widest demographic appeal, and in the West are often synonymous with the idea of a magical girl.

History of the GenreIt may come as a surprise to learn that the entire Magical Girl genre is descended, effectively, from the American live-action magical girlfriend sitcom Bewitched. While two series claim the role of first magical girl anime — Mitsuteru Yokoyama's Mahotsukai Sally (Sally the Witch, 1966-1968) and Akatsuka Fujio's Himitsu No Akkochan (broadcast 1969, but its manga predates Mahotsukai Sally) — the creators of both credit Bewitched as a primary inspiration for their work. Yokoyama explicitly adapted its concept for a younger audience, while Akatsuka merely says he was "inspired" by it.

Another important early magical girl show was Majokko Meg-chan in 1974. this was the first show to be marketed to boys as well as girls, and featured a number of developments — it was the first magical girl show to...

 have a  feature a  include a  feature  touch on more serious social issues like  have the heroine not only lose fights, but having to face serious consequences (deaths, injuries, humiliations, etc.).

Originally, all Magical Girl shows were produced by toei animation, so "Magical Girl" wasn't so much a genre as a series franchise. This lasted until Ashi Production's Magical Princess Minky Momo hit the airwaves in 1982, followed by studio pierrot's Creamy Mami in 1983 (the first magic idol singer show). A one-shot OVA produced in 1987 featured a bat family crossover between Studio Pierrot's four '80s Magical Girl shows (Magical Angel Creamy Mami; Persia, the Magic Fairy; Magical Star Magical Emi and Magical Idol Pastel Yumi) — this was the first instance of a magical girl team.

The magical girl warrior subgenre, despite being the most well-known style of magical girl show in the west, didn't hit until Sailor Moon in 1992 (unless you count Cutey Honey, which wasn't aimed at girls but had a lot of influence on it, or Devil Hunter Yohko, which wasn't aimed at girls either). This was a essentially a combination of the earlier style shows with the super hero genre, particularly the super sentai formula. Sailor Moon was a huge hit, and naturally other shows were made in the same style, and some were even more divergent from the old-style shows. Many fans felt that shows such as Magic Knight Rayearth were still magical girl shows, despite all the dissimilarities from the previous generation (others disagree, and feel that Rayearth is shoujo rpg world fantasy instead).

The wave of shows made in Sailor Moon's wake eventually subsided, but the genre is far from dead. Contemporary examples include Ojamajo Doremi, Pretty Cure (aimed at both young girls and adult males), and Magical Girl Lyrical Nanoha (more of an action series with magical girls). In 2011 Puella Magi Madoka Magica was released, and many consider it the equivalent of Neon Genesis Evangelion for the genre.

