

If Bob wants to get laid and has to choose between asking Alice, a beautiful woman with an active sex life, and Claire, a "plain" woman looking to keep her virtue for her wedding night, Bob will always choose Claire.

There's just something about virgins that seems to exude desirability, like a natural aphrodisiac that works regardless of gender. Heck, even characters who are no longer virgins can get this benefit from sincerely trying to be chaste or celibate because cold turkeys are everywhere (faking it is far more hit and miss).

This was a big thing in older stories, what with a "woman's virtue" and desirability being directly proportional, and part of the nobility behind a knight in shining armour. The sheer number of suitors a fair and virginal princess would draw to her just from hearing her described would be staggering, bordering on so beautiful, it's a curse.

The reasons behind this vary depending on the period of the story and the characters themselves. In early stories it's because sex is evil, and virginity is a sign of purity, and thus desirability — and also giving the man some hope of averting mama's baby, papa's maybe, since it's evidence that she doesn't just sleep around. Modern stories follow the Madonna/Whore Complex: men marry the Madonna, but sleep with the Whore. There's also the bragging rights behind bedding a virgin, which would be a BIG notch in any casanova's or rare male vamp's belt. The assumptions here are that a man is not a virgin, and the virginal are idiots, and non-virginal women are whores. It bears repeating that this can be a gender neutral trope; when a man is a virgin, that signals to women that this guy is likely waiting for love and not just wanting a one-night stand.

Sometimes this trope comes in a more disturbing form, where the thought of defiling a virgin is a turn on in and of itself. However, it could also be thought of as a turn-on to be the first one to show someone how great sex can be. There is also the foolish idea held by some insecure people that a virgin won't know if the sex was bad, having no comparison. But of course, anyone can tell if they enjoyed themselves or if they were in pain. And it's much easier to satisfy an experienced woman and keep her from being in pain than it is to do the same for a virgin (same applies to a gay man on the bottom, naturally.)

In a horror setting, this is a good thing because of death by sex. Then again, there's always the chance the villain of the movie needs a virgin sacrifice...

More tropes that often go hand - in - hand with this:

                 subversions:

     Do not confuse this trope with nature abhors a virgin.

 Club9: Even though Haruo's generous figure and klutzy, pure-hearted charm are enough to melt the brains of her admirers, any time the men get a hint of her being a virgin...

  Averted in  In  Pick a horror film, any horror film. In fact, in lists of horror movie rules (where they present common tropes in rule form, such as "don't go into dark, empty rooms"), "  In   In  Played straighter than an arrow for laughs in the play and film  In  In the movie version of Dragnet, Joe Friday falls for the Virgin Connie Swail (as she's almost always called) after rejecting a topless model and a stripper. Connie may also be using this trope, since she chooses Joe over his partner who is seen with several different women; it's implied Joe is a virgin himself.

 There's an episode of  A similar thing happened in  In the  Averted in at least one episode of   In 2002, Chris Nowinski took a liking to Molly Holly after finding out she was a virgin.

 In  Inverted in  In  In the novel   In  The nature of royal marriages in  