The Soul series (unrelated to the "souls series") is a series of 3D weapon-based fighting games created by namco's team Project Soul, arriving shortly after the success of its other 3D fighter, Tekken.In 16th century Eurasia, rumours persist of a legendary sword of heroes known only as "Soul Edge." Only a few know that Soul Edge is actually an evil artifact of doom with an insatiable thirst for human souls. Some warriors seek Soul Edge without knowing the truth, while others seek to destroy it or capture its power for themselves.To counter Soul Edge, an opposing sword of light was created: the spirit sword, Soul Calibur. When these two swords first clashed, Soul Edge was shattered into pieces while Soul Calibur fell dormant. Now the shards of Soul Edge are seeking to reunite, oozing corruptive power that bestows misfortune on all who encounter them. An epic final battle between the two opposing swords is now fast approaching, with the fate of the world at stake.The series began in the mid-90s with Soul Edge, one of the first games to feature three-dimensional combat where every character held a weapon. Control was mostly similar to Tekken and Virtua Fighter, where characters could move along the three-dimensional plane, and could be knocked out of the ring if they were careless. Characters could also deflect each other's weapon attacks, or break them and render them useless if hit enough times.Soul Edge, while mildly successful in arcades (and on the PlayStation as Soul Blade), was largely overshadowed by Soul Calibur, which revamped many of the original game's aspects, including the three-dimensional movement, character combos and timing, and completely removed the breakable weapon aspect. The Dreamcast port of the game rebalanced the gameplay and overhauled the graphics, becoming its system's killer app in the process. It is often placed among game critics' "favorite games of all time."Soul Calibur has since spawned four sequels, which have been ported to a number of home systems. A spin-off action adventure title, Soulcalibur Legends, has been released for the Wii; IV has also been ported to the PSP as Soulcalibur: Broken Destiny, which guest stars Kratos, the god of war.The latest game in the series is Soulcalibur: Lost Swords, which was released on February 6, 2013, in Japan and April 22, 2014, in North America. Lost Swords is a single-player free-to-play title distributed through the playstation network,based on Soulcalibur V, the goal of which is for the player to collect loot through battles. Players can imbue the weapons with elemental properties, such as fire and wind. Virtual item sales will also be offered.As of Soulcalibur III, the series title seems to be Soulcalibur in a reference to excalibur. The series underwent change in direction after this point. Soulcalibur V was directed by Daishi Odashima, who said he wanted the game to be named Soul Edge 2, but was rejected. In December 2013, the series again changed project direction, and Project Soul is now under the leadership of Masaki Hoshino.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 