Since space is an ocean, Space Marines are the troops carried by spaceships, their roles paralleling those of conventional marines: mobile deployment, boarding hostile ships, securing ports — including space stations — from space pirates.

These guys are the number one troops of choice for the humans in the standard sci fi setting.

Space Marines first turn up in the short story "Captain Brink of the space marines" by Bob Olsen in Amazing Stories Volume 7, Number 8, of November 1932, and a later followup, 1936's "The Space Marines and the Slavers." The trope, however, fully rose to prominence with the use of the term on the wildly popular Lensman Series beginning in 1934. In 1959, Starship Troopers codified the trope, popularizing the emblematic power armor and the array of exotic weaponry they wield.

Warhammer 40,000 from games workshop is notable for taking these aspects to a peak and becoming one of the more recognizable instances of the trope, if certainly not the first. Despite this, as of early 2013, the company claims ownership of a registered trademark (in the UK at least) on the name "Space Marine" (on occasions claiming "Marine" itself), though not the trope itself. This trademark has been used to make actual legal threats on occasion, most notably against the author of Spots The Space Marine.

These elite soldiers have the cachet of conventional Marines. Add bulky powered armor and (sometimes) either bio-augmentation or cyber-augmentation (or both!) to get classic super soldiers.

In many settings they fight as a squad, sometimes with awesome personnel carrier support, or launched by drop pod. A notable exception to this are the many first person shooters that use the Space Marine background as a useful excuse to get a highly trained soldier alone on a hostile planet. This tradition starts with the much-imitated Doom series — see a space marine is you and one-man army.

This page shouldn't be to be confused with the video game Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine, though that game pretty much is about them.

It should be noted that the name "space marine" is actually a misnomer — there's no water in deep space. Works aiming for more realism or a more ray gun gothic feel may prefer to call them "espatiers." But for those wanting more to invoke the Romantic space is an ocean trope the name space marine works just fine. Sometimes, "space marine" is culturally translated into "space [insert bad ass military unit here]" - for instance in Russia space marines are often called "space landing forces" (kosmodesantniki) after the VDV an airborne unit of the Russian military that has roughly the same reputation as the usmc and royal marines in American and British cultures.

