Keima Katsuragi is famous on the Internet as "The God of Conquest": there is no dating sim that he cannot beat, no heroine whose heart he cannot conquer. However, in real life he's an introverted and unpopular otaku jerkass who hates all real girls and buries himself in video games.One day, he receives a provocative email asking for help in conquering some hearts. He rises to the challenge, inadvertently making a deal with the devil to help Elsie, a lesser devil from Hell, re-capture some runaway spirits. These spirits hide in the hearts of troubled girls, and the easiest way to force them out is to have the girl fall in love. If he fails, then it's off with his head! Thus begins Keima's daunting task, which throws him deep into exactly what he's been dismissing: real life, and more importantly, real girls.The series' main purpose is poking fun at different aspects of dating sims (or "Gal Games") and playing with various heroine archetypes, usually by setting up an stock personality trope and then revealing the truth to be far more complex. It also aims a megaphone at many, many things- pretty much everything.The story as a whole currently can be summed up as three major story sagas starting with the Capture Targets saga spanning chapters 1-113, the Goddess saga for chapters 114-189, and the Heart of Jupiter saga for chapters 190-268.The Capture Targets saga deals with Keima going about real-world dating sim conquests to capture runaway spirits that plague the hearts of troubled girls. The Goddess saga deals with Keima having to search for the Jupiter Sisters who have hidden themselves amongst the human populace. Finally, the Heart of Jupiter saga has Keima time-traveling into his past seven-year-old self to complete the checkpoints that established his present life. For more details regarding the shorter arcs that make up each of these sagas, visit the recap page.An anime adaptation by manglobe began in October 2010, with a second season released in april 2011, along with three OVAs. A Spinoff OVA was released in June 2013 followed by the third season called . The first two seasons have been licensed and dubbed by sentai filmworks.The Manga came to a close after more than six years and 268 "flags". A Spinoff sequel starring the six girls with goddess and trains has been announced.All three seasons of the anime can be watched here at Crunchyroll.