The good die young, or so authors would have us believe.

A popular and old (and perhaps outdated but overused) trope to justify kill the cutie. If there is a child of extraordinary beauty, goodness and innocence in the story, he or she will invariably die in as anvilicious a manner as possible. The child will be certainly an ill girl, and frequently a waif prophet, whose death will be slow, torturous and lingering (tuberculosis or other disease was a particular favorite in the 19th Century), giving the child a chance to bid farewell to everyone she loved in a long, drawn-out drama scene. Sometimes she gets to speak a few last words to hammer in an aesop relevant to the larger plot at hand. After she's breathed her last, her loss is mourned by all who knew her — in particularly extreme cases even the big bad will take a moment to reflect on it — and may serve to re-energize tired or disillusioned heroes to fight on for her cause.

The trope name comes from a frequent comment made at the subsequent funeral, that the poor departed child was too good for this sinful earth, and thus was called home to Heaven by a merciful God.

Often a form of death by newbery medal (a major reason why this trope still lives on and in many people's minds why this trope has yet to be really discredited, or at least is still used). Needless to say, in the hands of an inexperienced author, this trope is prone to being used badly.

the unfavorite is often the surviving child. Indeed, parental favoritism may not even really kick in until the favorite is dead.This trope often overlaps with what measure is a non-human?, i just want to be normal, pinocchio syndrome, and some variant of gentle giant, in characters that are created by mad science or even regular science. In this type of story, the artificial creature is too innocent for this sinful Earth, and is at risk of being corrupted by it. Sometimes, instead of dying, the "monster" chooses voluntary exile.

Compare with diabolus ex machina. littlest cancer patient could be considered the modern take of this trope, but with a slight hope of healing and living for the affected kid (and also more likely to be played for comedy). Compare with shoo out the clowns, in which the lighthearted and comic-relief characters are taken or killed off the story to show that things have gotten serious. Contrast like you would really do it.

See purity sue for the kind of character who most often gets this treatment. Also see bury your gays to see how this is applied to homosexuals.

Not to be confused with the knight templar, who sees himself as "too good", and his duty as being to wipe away all the "sin" by any means possible. Contrast asshole victim.

