

In western cultures, white is used to symbolize moral purity. This woman wears a dress that's as clean as she is. This is traditional for a bride on her wedding day, debutante at her coming out party, and virgin sacrifices. It might be relevant today because of the characters being religious or bringing back old-school chivalry. If there are moral expectations you can expect some slut shaming by the moral guardians for those who don't remain "pure". In the old times, any unmarried women was expected to remain chaste so she could be identified by the color she was wearing. the ingenue might wear white for the virginal symbolism, while an ethical slut might do so for the irony or to emphasize the "ethical" aspect.

A fairytale wedding dress will be pure white unless it has a little bit of pink or something as girly on it. The girlyness is done away with for the virgin's dress though because she's so mature all she needs is a dress that's simple, understated and still strikingly beautiful and white.

Technically she's a woman in white, but she doesn't necessarily have the importance and style that that character has, as the color is expected of the bride, which takes the mystery out of her.

Examples can range from the saint-like, to a sexually inexperienced woman who wanted to "lose it" or an experienced one who "renewed it" or any mention of sexuality while wearing white.

This is the basis of the blood-splattered wedding dress.

Compare gold and white are divine and true blue femininity.

 In the 1987  In the play, and later movie,  In  In   In  In   In  Maria in  Spoofed in  In a  This general idea has carried over to high school graduations in the U.S., now that caps and gowns come in more than basic black. If one of the school colors is white, nine times out of ten the girls will wear white caps and gowns, while  This Trope isn't always the case in Eastern cultures (including China, Pakistan, Vietnam, and India), where  This trope in the West is actually  In the West, this trope is becoming a  For decades, Judith Martin, better known as Miss Manners, has been trying to combat the "vulgar" idea that white is for virgin brides only. As she explains it, "White had been a usual color for young girls before they were allowed to overstimulate themselves – and others – by wearing exciting colors and jewels and putting up their hair." It was therefore appropriate ("fresh" and "sweet") on a woman who had never taken on the burdens of marriage before. A woman remarrying was expected to want to project wisdom and maturity, and therefore to prefer some other color for her second wedding gown.

