The largest continent on Earth. Famous for their rich cultural traditions and the first civilizations in history. Also the birth place of the major religions: Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, ... Roughly Asia can be divided in three large parts: the Middle East (Arabic countries), South Asia (best known for Hindu countries like India) and the Far East/East Asia. Of course, this is a very narrow summarization. For starters: Russia, which is considered to be a European country, stretches out over most of the northern part of Asia. Despite not being an Asian country it still takes up the biggest chunk of the continent and is in fact even the largest country on Earth. Still, to most people Asia is mostly associated with the Far East.

The Middle East (North Africa excluded)

 To most people the Middle East is just one large desert. Not entirely true, as Lebanon, Turkey and Iran have jungles and mountains.

 All Middle Eastern countries are of course  Popular Middle Eastern city images are temples, mosques and minarets. No image of the Middle East is complete without a scene where a muezzin is calling/chanting the ritual morning prayer.

 Most people know the Middle East as the setting for  In  The oldest traditional stereotypes associated with the Middle East are derived from 8th to 18th century history and feature sultans, caliphs,  The films of  Another popular image is the  Negative stereotypes about Arabs are that they are all supposedly agressive fanatical assassins. A typical image found in old books, films, comics and cartoons is that Arabs out of nowhere will pull out a dagger, sabre or scimitar. When they attack they will ululate, praise Allah or shout gibberish with many  Positive stereotypes about Arabs are that they produce beautiful carpets, exquisite calligraphy and mysterious mesmerizing music that can last from one to three hours in length. Adding to the Oriental atmosphere are lutes, an oboe, tambourines, rhythmic percussion and sometimes a singer who sounds hypnotized himself.

 Another stereotypical image is the rich  All Arabs will praise or mention Allah in almost every sentence they speak. Other popular stock phrases are:  All Arabs are named Ali, Muhammad (after the Prophet), Mustafa, Ghassim, Jafar, Akbar, Abu, Ottoman, Hakim, Amin, Adel,  Arab women are either overdressed to the point of being nothing more than a burka ((which are Pakistani in origin, not from Afghanistan and certainly not Arab) or will be scantily clad and sexy  Arabs have their own set of stereotypes about one another:

 In (beat 'em up) videogames, for whatever reason, there are a number of Afghanistan War, war, and more war. Everyone is either a terrorist, a victim of terrorism, a victim of a foreign army, or an oppressed woman. The Taliban's draconian rules will have been in place for untold centuries, never mind that the Taliban have only existed since the 1990s. Every great empire in history feels the need to invade, only to get burned by Afghanistan's sheer unconquerableness. Invading armies range from Iran Back when the country was named Persia it was known for the Shah,   Iranians are commonly mistaken for Arabs and receive the same treatment. When someone does bother to note the difference, Persians (the men, anyway) will be stereotyped similarly to the so-called Guidos. Think tacky "club" outfits with lots of gold chains, hair gel, cheap cologne, over-priced designer sunglasses, etc.  Iran's western neighbors—particularly the Arabs—regard them as stuck-up know-it-alls who  Many stereotypes about Persia/Iran originated Iraq Back when the country was still called Babylon it was mostly known for its Hanging Gardens, one of the Seven World Wonders. Iraqis still feel proud about their ancient history (Iraq being Mesopotamia, i.e. the oldest civilization in the world).

 Since 1990 the West knows Iraq primarily for the Gulf Wars and  Within the Arabic countries themselves the Iraqis are seen as Israel Most clichés about the country are derived from  All Israelis are Jewish in ethnicity and religion.

 Palestinians are all Muslims who wear Yasser Arafat scarfs.

 Regarding the Jordan Best known for the historical city Petra.

Lebanon Within the Arabic countries themselves they are seen as being tough and resilient, Saudi Arabia Usually stereotyped as a country full of  Otherwise best known for Mecca.

Syria Within the Arabic countries themselves they are seen as the more serious cousins of the Lebanese, sharing the same quasi-Turkey Turkey forms the border between Europe and Asia, symbolized by the Bosporus. To this day there are ongoing discussions whether it should be considered part of Europe or not? The same argument is made about Israel. Both Turkey and Israel compete along with the Eurovision song contest, yet none of them are part of the European Union. Usually Turkey is considered to be part of the European continent, while Israel is already the Middle East.

 The reputation of the Turks is kind of history-dependent.

 Today Turkey is mostly famous for  Turkey also has one of the most recognizable flags in the world: a white moon and a small star seen against a red background.

 In popular culture Turks are often portrayed wearing a fez. In reality this hatwear has been banned since Ataturk modernized the country in 1924. If they are worn it will be part of a traditional ceremony, not everyday life.

 Romanians and other Eastern Europeans tend to see Turks as shrewd merchants, food shop keepers and peddlers of all fakes imaginable in the world. But this is based strictly on Istanbul, Ankara and other few modern Europeanized cities and the migration of Turk businessmen towards Europe after  Turks are often portrayed as being  Since a  A very old but very enduring stereotype of Turkey is that of a land of hedonistic pleasures: hookahs, strong coffee, Turkish delights (very sweet and tough to chew candy), veiled belly-dancers and the infamous  The country is also famous for Sufi whirling, a specific dance style practiced by dervishes of the Sufi Islam. It's typified by men wearing a felt cap a, a  Since the film  Another negative reputation associated with the country are frequent reports of disregard for human rights, with people being arrested, tortured and executed for protesting against the government.

 Turkey has also gained a reputation for plagiarizing films and comic strips from other countries and putting them into a weird amateurish context. Though sometimes titles like  And, to conclude, in the English language Turkey cannot be mentioned without making an South Asia South Asia and South-East Asia are known for their wildlife: The mountainous areas of Mongolia, Tibet and Southern Russia will be full of yaks. The jungles will be chuck full with macaques, gibbons, lemurs, langurs, proboscis monkeys (famous for their noses), orang-utans, tigers, civet cats, black bears, cranes, salamanders, catfish, komodo dragons, tapirs, gharials (crocodiles with small snouts) and the kantjil (mousedeer or chevrotain). The rest is brimful with archipelagoes, volcanoes and bamboo. Cycloons, tornadoes, floods, monsoon rains and earth quakes will frequently ravage the country.

 Economically, the area has been known internationally for centuries for the trade of spices like pepper, ginger, cloves and nutmeg. Rice, tea and rubber are also prominent export products.

 Indians are often confused with Native Americans as a pun.

 Both countries are often depicted as if they're more or less the same. With one important stereotypical distinction: All Indians are Hindu, all Pakistanis are Muslim. Sometimes Indian Muslims are acknowledged (although mostly in works dealing specifically about Hindu-Muslim tension), but Sikhs rarely are, despite one of the most stereotypical depictions of Indians (guys with turbans and big beards) being very much based around Sikhs—to say nothing of the Prime Minister being Sikh. Jains, Buddhists, and Christians are almost never mentioned (this despite there actually being more Indian Christians than Sikhs).

 India and Pakistan are also known for being horribly poor. People live in slums or rural backwaters, where they farm with oxen. They will all travel by train since they can't afford it any other way. And even then most train passengers will simply climb or hold on to themselves on top or on side of the train. Essentially, it's still   Many images of India are derived from the ancient mysterious exotic days, usually overlapping with Middle Eastern  Other stereotypes are derived from 19th and 20th century British colonial times, for example: people going tiger hunting while riding an elephant.  Indian or Pakistani men all wear turbans. A long thick beard may be mandatory, but a moustache will do too.

 All Indians and Pakistanis eat rice, hot spices and curry  Modern stereotypical images of Indians and Pakistani depict them as shopkeepers, taxi drivers, workers in the  Another modern image is the  All Indian movies are, of course,  No visit to India is complete without showing the Taj Mahal!

 The Ganges river will also be shown, but only when Hindus are washing themselves in the  The monsoon seasons are also a point of reference, with either not enough rain or too much of it for months!

East Asia People from this part of Asia often suffer from  Historically, and especially during the 19th and 20th century, Westerners saw East Asia as the      When they travel it will be by boat, either a sampan, junk, catamaran or a maru. They will be fishing and use the ship as a house too.

  Asian men have their own set of stereotypes:

 Asian women also have their set of stereotypes:

 Asian cuisine is also subject to stereotypical ideas. Most of the time they will eat nothing but rice, noodles and soja sauce and preferably use sticks instead of knife and fork. Apart from that they will enjoy sea food, such as sushi, fish eggs and whales. Chinese delicacies like thousand-year-old egg and bird nest soup are well-known among Westerners, and Koreans are said to favour kimchi and dog meat.

  Every cheap and dangerous product will always be made in Eastern Asia, usually by slave laborers, before being sent to the Western World: China The  The Great Wall of China, The Forbidden City, the Tian An Men Square and the Shaolin Temple will be shown or visited at one point. And don't try to show  A popular stereotype is the insanely intelligent and evil Chinese villain with a beard or long  A more gentle stereotype is the Chinese doctor or pharmacist who uses strange rituals, drinks and techniques to cure his patient. Often he is a practitioner of acupuncture. See  In westerns and comic strips Chinese people were often depicted as proprietors of  More modern stereotypes about China are basically referencing  In the rest of the world the Chinese are mainly seen as restaurant owners, cooking several rice products and handing out fortune cookies.

 When attempting to demonstrate   In (beat 'em up) videogames, Chinese characters are  More recent portrayals seem to indicate that the Chinese might be taking over the ruthless businessman role from the Japanese in Hollywood films. In fact, a growing number of modern works have the  Between the Special Administrative Regions and the Mainland China there is also stereotyping between both sides, Mainland China views the average SAR citizens (Hong Kong for example) as impatient, unpatriotic, classist, brash and complete workaholics, while Mainlanders are seen as moody and spoiled due to several policies in China (namely the one child policy), as well as  All cheap products are  Animals able to provide a specific Chinese atmosphere are panda bears and cranes. And a Chinese dragon as well, of course.

 Chinese music consists mostly of people playing an erhu.

 And who could forget the ancient urban legend that Hong Kong A big, modernized city full of tourists.

 In the years when Hong Kong was a British colony the Kowloon Walled City had an infamous reputation for being an overpopulated den of lawfulness with brothels,   Hong Kong is likely to be filled with masseusses who will step on your back and give  Lots of dead chickens hanging in the windows and lots of old ladies willing to behead any live chickens they get.

 A hot-spot for wealthy business men (both Asian and White) to visit and  Extremely brash and impatient by Asian standards, filled with shopkeepers and passerby who will kick your ass for trying to ask for help. This is somewhat true, as shopkeepers in China are less picky about their customers than in America.

 Cheap products will all be Japan  The Japanese are often seen as extreme workaholics who never take time off and always try to be as good as they possibly can. Either at school, at work or at home. This comes into sharp contrast with their  The cheerful  The overweight sumo wrestler.

 The cute and sexy girl in school uniform. (See  The  Japanese also have a reputation for honorable suicides, ranging from hara-kiri,   All Japanese houses are either pagodes or shojis with paper thin walls, tatami floor mats and fusuma doors that you can slide open.

 Japan's involvement in  Japanese popular culture often baffles other countries:

 In (beat 'em up) video games, Japanese characters run the full gamut of character types (unsusprisingly, seeing as how most series have multiple Japanese characters), but the most  Japanese people are engineering geniuses, but they use this to create giant robots and very odd inventions, like square melons and toilets that produce fountains and play music.

 Specific Japanese dishes that will be referenced are octopus (usually alive), whale meat, sushi, fugu, sukiyaki, saké and wasabi.

 A more negative stereotype is the perverted Japanese man who is a  Japanese people add  Oddly, the Ainu get more press in America than in Japan.

 In Japan itself, there's the stereotype of  Among the Asians themselves, Japan is often viewed as an Asian version of the Confederate South in the USA. They have a similar  Since Japan has a very recognizable flag expect references to the South Korea  Also, dry cleaning. More than a few Korean immigrants have had dry cleaning as their first job in the United States. Several catalogs even have a specialized Korean-language line to dial.

 Koreans are not generally seen as distinct from Chinese or Japanese (see  Koreans are the only East Asian ethnicity to generally be portrayed as Christian, although other Asian countries (the Philippines, East Timor, Georgia and Armenia) also have people of this religion. Not exactly helped by the fame of  Korean food consists of rice, dog meat and kimchi. No exceptions.

 It's a bit of a stereotype in the Asian-American community that Koreans, especially the women, are really into plastic surgery. This is a stereotype  The internet front has Netizen, which are often treated as a South Korean exclusive thing that puts most internet activists to shame in terms of a North Korea   South Koreans stereotype  North Korean women are considered to be more submissive and traditional than their South Korean counterparts. Feminism, of course, never made it across the DMZ. Some South Korean men seek out Northern women for this reason, viewing Southern women as too spoiled and judgemental.

Taiwan  Also, every Taiwanese person on the internet seems to know every other Taiwanese person. This is somewhat true, as the internet community on Taiwan is somewhat tight-knit, a consequence of being tiny.

 Although most Taiwanese are of Han Chinese ethnicity, they are treated as essentially Japanese in culture (probably stemming from being ruled by Japan for about 50 years until the end of World War Two and having the least bad overall attitude about the country in Asia, as well as having taken on some Japanese culture from the occupation).

 Taiwan may be confused with Hong Kong; there will be taxis, 24-hour laundries and teahouses where old men sit playing mah jong all day long. Traditional Chinese music will be heard.

 And every cheap product is of course  Many Americans don't differentiate Taiwanese people from the Chinese in terms of perception.

Macau Described as Las Vegas in Asia. This isn't far off the mark.

 Hong Kongers deride Macanese for being poorer than them.

Mongolia Bring up Mongolia and come up with  Chinese see Mongols as poor wretches deserving Chinese annexation.

 Russians—and to a lesser extent, other nationalities in the CIS—often see Mongolians as Asian Russians, since some minorities (like the Buryat people) are a Mongol subgroup and share some language and culture.

Tibet  In more politically motivated works, Tibet may be portrayed as a Southeast Asia

In popular culture, Southeast Asia is that place where the vietnam war happened. It did not exist before then, nor did it have a culture except for mysterious statues of Buddhas and ruined temples half-hidden by jungle overgrowth. everyone wears those conical hats and is a peasant, drug trafficker or ex-guerrilla. All Western tourists who go there will be caught up in some sort of scam or civil war or be imprisoned on trumped-up charges (usually drug trafficking). See: holiday in cambodia.

Vietnam Vietnam is  In popular culture Vietnam will only be used to show Vietnamese or American soldiers. That the country used to be a French colony is almost never mentioned.

 Vietnamese cuisine is one of the few positive images the world knows about the country.

Thailand In the past it was known as  Since being renamed as Thailand it is predominantly known for the capital city  Expect Thai massage, Thai dancing and/or Thai boxing ( If Thai characters do turn up in Laos When it exists, is identical to Thailand despite being landlocked. The Souphanousinphones from Cambodia Is the place where the Khmer Rouge took over. Virtually everything about Cambodia is known from the film  See also: Burma Similar stereotypes to Cambodia (see The Philippines Best known in popular culture for its capital   Negative perceptions of Filipinos characterize them as lazy, gluttonous, and heavy drinkers, who has the most number of holidays in the world. They tend to leave their jobs undone ( while uttering  Whenever American media shows a white gay male with a  Either a lot of nurses are Filipino women, or a lot of Filipino women are nurses. Stand up comedian Jo Koy:

 The Philippines are also known for being more fluent in English than other Asian countries. Probably because of the history of the country being colonized by both Spain and U.S.A. This led to many foreign students from many parts of the world (specifically from Europe and other Asian countries) to study in the Philippines (all just to learn proper English without the  Filipinos are violent  Also most Filipinos are very, very,  For Malaysian and Singaporean eyes, Filipinos are nothing more than maids. In many films from Singapore there's a Filipino maid stereotype depicted as young and often uneducated. This hasn't gone without criticism. Just ask Indonesia Stereotyped in the West as fanatical Muslims, even though Indonesian Islam is rather relatively moderate until recently.

 If the maids in  All Indonesian men wear a  All houses are built on stilts.

 Historically, Indonesia is best remembered for its Dutch colonial history, exemplified in the Dutch literary classic  Indonesian culture is famous for its dances and shadow puppet theatre.

 The martial art "silat" is also something unique to the country.

 Indonesia is also known for its volcanic islands, like the most infamous one: Krakatoa.

 The most famous Indonesian isle is Java, best known for the  Another famous isle is Bali, best known for its percussion orchestra gamelan music, dances and, recently, as the location for the  Some Komodo dragons and the Javan hawk-eagle will make a cameo too.

Malaysia In the West, they are a more refined version of the Indonesians, and richer.

 Also in works concerning Malaysia, expect the Petronas Towers to crop up.

Brunei Basically they are an even more refined version of Malaysian stereotypes.

 Being an oil-producing Islamic monarchy, the stereotypes of Gulf Arab states are also put into Brunei.

East Timor East Timor's portrayal in fiction is rare and if does crop up, expect poverty, gang violence, and ethnic violence as common cliches.

Singapore Stereotypes of Chinese people apply to Singapore, being a majority-Chinese nation.

 Singaporeans are stereotyped by other Asians as arrogant know-it-alls and would punish anyone who chews chewing gum or smokes in public.

 Singapore is also known for being a pirate's nest.

