Baltic CountriesDespite the many linguistic and cultural differences between Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia, the three tend to be lumped together in Soviet/Russian pop culture. Some of the common stereotypes of Balts include:

 They are cold-blooded, emotionless, reserved, and brooding. The only thing that flares them up is national issues (see below).

 Their women are uniformly tall, blonde, and either quite pudgy (if not outright  In the USSR, the three republics were viewed as "our very own Europe", with marvellous Gothic and Baroque architecture, easily available imported goods, a lot of hip and cool design and pop culture of their own, and much more laid-back, tolerant, and liberal than the rest of the country.

 In Soviet movies, Baltic actors tended to be typecast as villains, Westerners, aristocrats, or any combination thereof. Their lines were almost  In much of Russian media of the last 20 years, Baltic countries are portrayed as being run by ultra-nationalists who seek to weed out the vestiges of Russian presence (banning Soviet symbols, harassing the Russian-speaking population, etc.) and glorify surviving Waffen-SS members as "fighters against Bolshevism" while persecuting Communist resistance and Red Army vets.

Latvia  Estonians have a lot of jokes about Latvians supposedly having six toes on each feet.

Estonia Most Estonian stereotypes in Russia are almost completely interchangeable with Finns (see the  Latvians and Lithuanians depict Estonians as being slow.

 Though they did create one thing of international fame: the Skype software. It's true that a Dane and a Swede contributed along, but the other developers were all Estonians.

 And you might also known them for composer Arvo Pärt, whose composition "Spiegel im Spiegel" has been used in many films, most recently Lithuania Very few stereotypes of note exist about Lithuania specifically. Most have trouble telling it apart from Latvia, and the two countries tend to be confused a lot.

 In the 19th century Lithuanians were apparently seen by Russia as troublemakers and the most dangerous out of the Baltics due to the old association with Poland.

 They're talented at basketball.

 They hate the Polish, though they hate the Russians much, much more.

Central Europe Very insistent that they are  The most general image of Central Europe is that of a romanticized  All Central Europeans will be depicted wearing traditional peasant clothing. The one thing that sets them apart from Russia is their jumpy, catchy, dizzy making folk dance music, which always sounds as if it's twirling around.

 All Eastern European countries and regions will have names ending in  Despite the   Central Europe also has an association with  Since the end of the Cold War Central Europe has a bad reputation for being a criminal walhalla. Czech Republic To this day you'll find people still referring to it as "Czechoslovakia", despite being split in two countries since 1993. Czechs are seen as essentially identical to Germans and not Slavs, and rarely distinguished from Slovaks either.

 Czechs have a strong cultural heritage, exemplified by their numerous castles, marionette theatres, puppet films and literary classics like  The capital, Prague, is usually thought of as being fairly glamourous for the region of Europe in which it is located. Prague is also often featured as the template East European city in a wide variety of media, and the Barrandov Studios are a popular filming location for Hollywood movies such as  The most famous Czech region is Bohemia, which gave us the setting to the French opera  The most enduring Czech stereotype is that they are crazy beer drinkers. The "Pilsner" and "Budweiser" beers being their international greeting card.

 Their northern neighbours perceive them as a nation of good-natured simpletons, perhaps due to the influence of the novel  Czech girls and women are generally portrayed as beautiful (inspired probably by Czech supermodels like Karolina Kurkova or Eva Herzigova), often combined with  Czech taxi drivers are often thought to be tricksters of foreign tourists. Sadly, this has been proved to be  Historically the 15th century priest Jan Hus (burned at the stake for heresy) laid the foundations for making the Czech Republic the quite irreligious country that it is today. It has one of the world's highest proportions of atheists (a sharp contrast from their northern neighbor Poland, which is one of the most religious European countries).

 During the Cold War they were best known for producing the Škoda car, the Prague Spring and the Velvet Revolution.

 They are also quite skillful tennis players, with Ivan Lendl and Martina Navratilova as the most iconic examples.

Hungary Hungary is known as the birthplace of goulash (which is completely different from  Stereotypically the country is poor and economically still stuck in the 1980s, with  Hungarians are likely to be eccentric  The breeding place of Neonazis and right-wing loons. The Fourth Reich. Their  Among at least some Europeans, Hungary is also (in)famous for its porn industry, which exploded after  Occasionally also shares the Transylvanian stereotypes (Vampires, torches and pitchforks etc.) mentioned in detail under Romania, thanks mostly to messy local history and Poland In America, there are a lot of jokes about the pigheaded stubbornness and stupidity of the Polish people. (Many Americans are of German descent, and  In foreign media Poles generally have names ending in Slavic inflections like -ski or -icz. In reality, not  Poles are often stereotyped in a clichés similar to Russians, particularly for being  In the UK, Polish immigrants are  Poles eat kielbasa and sauerkraut constantly and are obsessed with bigos. No other dishes exist in Polish cuisine according to popular culture.

 Poland has an undeserved reputation for losing wars which is probably due to its being the first country invaded in  Poles also have a reputation for thievery. Two common jokes:

 And of course, as matter of a joke, Poland will be confused with the North Pole and/or the South Pole.

Slovakia When it exists in popular culture, it's essentially "the Czech Republic but poorer". A passing reference may be made to mountains. Extra points for noting the capital is Bratislava and not something else.

The Balkans Generally stereotyped as being  It's not a region- it's an ethnic-religious cluster fuck.

Greece To most people  The most enduring modern Greek stereotype are the Greek soldiers ("evzones"), immediately recognizable for their traditional military uniforms, recognizable due to the "fustanella", a kilt-like garment.

 In the 1960s Greece managed to become internationally famous again, thanks to actress Melina Mercouri,  Perhaps the most modern of all Greek stereotypes (most popular in the rest of the EU) is Greece as the monetary black hole, unable to cope with the 2008 stock market crash  All Greeks are either Greek Orthodox or still worship gods from   All Greeks are each others' nephews, a stereotype also found in  Greek men all have a  Greek parents are very caring and overprotective about their children, well until their kids are beyond their adult years.

 Greek women are usually homely mothers who mostly cook. The rest of the time they will be gossiping.

 Just like Italian stereotypes Greeks have a reputation for being unable to keep their voice down. They love to shout and argue passionately, even in public places. A fist- or knife fight might break out afterwards.

 This European post card sarcastically  Greece is famous for its shipping industry Greeks and Turks have a rivalry that goes back many centuries when both countries went to war against each other. To this day Greeks don't like to be compared to Turks (and vice versa), despite the fact that they obviously have a lot in common due to sharing a similar historical tradition.

 Greece also has a centuries old reputation for homosexuality. The word "lesbian" is derived from the Greek isle Lesbos. In Ancient Greece homosexual relationships were fairly common and the male body was idealized more than the female one.

 Greece also has a reputation for providing great warriors such as  To most other countries it is mostly known for producing Gavrilo Princip, the man who assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Hungary and gave other countries an excuse to start        And of course all these people are repeatedly confused with each other, much to their own chagrin.

Albania Tribalistic in temperament, settle all their issues with violence, love tracksuits and are either owners of an eatery or work for the mob - Muslim Italians with a weird language nobody understands, apparently.

 Owners of possibly the most  Much like Bulgarians often stereotyped as criminals, human traffickers, gangsters, spies and/or evil militarians.

Romania Transylvania is the only place that exists. Its inhabitants are  They are frequently lumped together with Slavic countries despite Romanian being a language closer to Latin than Slavic languages. The fact that most Romanians are Eastern Orthodox (as opposed to Catholic like other Romance peoples) doesn't help either.

 Romanians, seemingly moreso than other nations, get  Another popular stereotype is the freakishly flexible Romanian female gymnast, and (unfortunately) certainly amongst Western Europeans, the association of hellish orphanages with children literally chained to grimy, iron beds.

 They have a reputation for being either Communists or prostitutes. Bulgaria They really enjoy eating yoghurt! And love roses!

 They were the  If an Eastern European villain is needed he'll usually be Bulgarian (if he isn't Russian).

 Culturally the country is best known for their folk music, which has a distinctive extended rhythmical time, which has no equivalent in the rest of European music. Bulgarian singing is also noticeable for its hypnotic rural atmosphere.

 An outdated stereotype about Bulgaria in Central and Eastern Europe, is that Bulgarians has reversed head gestures for saying Belarus Belarus is mostly seen as a mini version of Russia, thus showcasing a lot of the same stereotypes.

 A stereotypical image of Belarus in contemporary Russia is as follows: everyone is a redneck who works on a farm, drives a tractor, and lives in a hut; nothing has changed since Soviet times in terms of politics or culture; everything is laughably cheap and everyone is dirt poor, living on a diet of vodka and potatoes; the Belarusian language doesn't exist; in short, " Belarusians are stereotyped by their neighbouring countries as being reserved and unemotional cold.

 In the West, Belarus is nicknamed "the last dictatorship in Europe". It's usually seen as a miniature Soviet Union living in a Cold War time warp, or perhaps a European version of North Korea (minus the nukes).

Caucasus

In Soviet/Russian culture, stereotypes of peoples from the North Caucasus and Transcaucasia (specifically, Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan) are as follows:

 Caucasian people  Their men are incredibly lecherous and always horny, showering the objects of their affection with flowers, expensive gifts, etc., and then abandoning them after getting what they'd been looking for.

 They are reputed to be filthy rich, mostly from criminal activity. They tend towards conspicuous consumption and flashy displays of wealth.

 Due to two Chechen Wars and an ongoing insurgency in the North Caucasus, they are often suspected of being terrorists, religious fanatics, or ruthless mobsters.

 Jokes about their Russia The oldest stereotypes about Russia are pretty much the same about entire Central and Eastern Europe: a romanticized  Since the  Since the fall of Communism the most modern Russian stereotype is that everybody there is involved in   The women wear something called a babushka, which inexplicably refers to a type of head dress instead of its actual meaning (grandmother). Sometimes they are depicted as being more masculine than feminine.

 Apparently Russian women go from impossibly hot supermodels to shriveled-up crones over an absurdly short period of time. It is likely they will be tall, leggy blondes who are constantly depressed and mopey despite being incredibly beautiful.

 Children will play with matryoshka dolls. If they do play videogames, it will ALWAYS be Tetris (Created by a Russian, natch.)

  Russian meals are nothing else but soup, borscht, stew, goulash, caviar, paprika or salami. The only available drink is vodka.

 Russians all love    In Romanian popular culture, the Russian (notion which lumps together true Russians, Ukrainians and Belorussians, at least as they speak intelligible Russian) is always  When a scene cuts to Moscow: the Kremlin will always be seen in the background.

 If Russia has to be symbolized by an animal it will be a grizzly bear.

 When you're in space and you encounter an astronaut who isn't American, it will be a Russian kosmonaut. Russia was the pioneer in space travel and were the first to respectively bring a satellite, an animal and both a human male and a female in outer space. They reached so much progress in such a short notice that even the USA was impressed and felt the urge to rapidly start their own space program.

 Russian athletes will usually be genius  Russians may also be depicted as virulently anti-Semitic (or sometimes anti-Muslim) due to the historical persecutions of Jews and Muslims in Russia. The word 'pogrom' is even Russian.

 Video game characters from Russia (particularly in beat-em-ups or fighting games) tend to be big, heavy, and powerful  Russian men will be named Igor, Vladimir, Nikita, Nicolas, Yuri, Ivan or Boris. Women will be named Nadia, Natalya, Anastasia, Ekatarina, Tatyana, or Valentina.

Moldova Independent since 1991 and yet, like all other former Russian regions, still thought to be nothing more than a part of Russia.

 Best known for the pop group O-Zone which gave us the 2003 hit song "Dragostea Din Tei" (the "Numa Numa" song).

Ukraine People will say "The Ukraine", even though it is simply "Ukraine". Before its independence (1991) it was indeed given the suffix "the", but today this is totally outdated. Still many foreigners think it's part of Russia and that Ukranians speak Rusisian, which again is totally false. The same happens to their capital city, Kiev.

 In Russian culture, Ukrainians are a common object of stereotyping as simple-minded rustic hillbillies. A "typical" Ukrainian wears national (peasant) dress, eats  All Ukranians enjoy dancing the  Ukrainian girls are uniformly dark-haired, pudgy, gentle and submissive but also  In recent years, Western Ukrainians are stereotyped as rabid nationalists (if not outright Fascists).

 The most negative assocation within the country is the nuclear power plant disaster in  Given the scale of recent events, expect Ukraine to be known for the Euromaidan civil unrests above all else for many years to come.

