those wacky nazis. Sure, they might be brutal and genocidal, but at least they can make trains run on time and all that good stuff... only, the actual Nazis couldn't even do that. With military resources spread across four completely separate services that had to be actively bullied by Hitler into cooperating (heer, kriegsmarine, luftwaffe, ss), four economic institutions which competed for limited resources, two General Headquarters , two intelligence services (SA, SD) that never shared information and occasionally offed each other's agents, two civil services and two courts (one regular/normal, one SS), and five atomic bomb programs that shared no information or resources with each other Nazi Germany was actually one of the most inefficient states in history - and that's not even accounting for the gross corruption. In Real Life, the only thing efficient about dictatorships is their total control of the media, which they use to portray themselves as being extremely efficient (and benevolent) despite their crippling factional in-fighting and endemic corruption.

In fiction, the administrative incompetence of authoritarian regimes is often taken to comedic extremes. They'll enforce laws in a haphazard manner - extreme draconian punishment for jaywalkers, but anyone with enough sense to wear a paper-thin disguise slips right under the radar. It appears that in their respective universes, fascism is controlled by a series of obstructive bureaucrats, who aren't really interested in things working so much as they are in seriously inconveniencing people.

This trope isn't just limited to fascism, but authoritarianism in general. Certain types of Communists, and even good ol' fashioned non-ideological tyrants, most notoriously military dictatorships, can fit under this trope. In fact, the trope runs a wide gamut of malice and effectiveness. This kind of government can actually be run by lawful good characters whose haphazard enforcement of the law usually keeps the heroes from doing their job. la résistance may operate under the auspice of a mildly incompetent evil government, such that their activities go unnoticed. Other such governments are just willfully ignorant of certain lawbreakers for whatever reason, be it prejudice, corruption or plain old laziness. A distinct possibility is that the boss really is surrounded by idiots just as he's been saying all along.

Of course, the people living under such a regime will still talk about how efficient the Fascist, But Inefficient government is... because if they don't, they stand a good chance of getting arrested and shot. This is truth in television; turns out it's kinda hard to oppress people, try to take over the world and run a functioning government at the same time. This is because dictators often care more about their own gain than the welfare of their citizens, and the country suffers as a result.

Compare dystopia is hard. Contrast repressive but efficient. See the other wiki for real life examples.

