A dark, twisted version of rural new england as used as a setting for horror stories. Named for the author h.p. lovecraft — a native of Rhode Island — who wrote a number of tales set in a New England milieu, usually small isolated towns that look boring and mediocre at first but are actually dark and foreboding on the inside, populated by hostile and corrupt (in several ways) hicks that often are not quite human, twisted by the influence of ancient horrors and extradimensional aliens (and generations of inbreeding).

Milder versions of this can be found in other types of horror. The setting trend was then continued by stephen king, a more contemporary famous American horror writer, although he sets his stories in Maine as opposed to Massachusetts and Rhode Island. If you don't want as many New England accents, upstate new york or the pine barrens will do, although it probably won't be quite as Eldritch. As for why this area seems to attract so much horror fiction (asides from Lovecraft and King writing what they knew and other writers following the leader)... if you ever go to New England in autumn or winter, you'll find it quite scenic during the day (the fall foliage is a major tourist magnet, as are the region's abundant ski resorts), but the sun sets early and it gets dark, cold, and spooky fast. The salem witch trials probably also have a role to play (cf. salem is witch country).

This setting has certain common points with the deep south, in that the depiction could be construed as condescending and offensive to those who live in such environs, but there are two important differences: In Lovecraft country, evil and corruption is mostly supernatural in origin, and the setting is solely used for horror stories. American TV can depict a rural New England that is not Lovecraft Country, but the rural South is almost always the deep south, unless the author is southern himself.

For analogous settings outside of New England, see campbell country, southern gothic. Compare and contrast hollywood new england.

Most examples are literary, as successful adaptations to other media are seldom seen.

we can't stop here...