The Arctic Often depicted as if it's one large continent, similar to Antarctica, while in reality the Arctic, or "North Pole" is the name for several regions comprised of Alaska, Northern Canada, Greenland, and even Scandinavia and Northern Russia.

  The Arctic itself will often be simply one blank white landscape, full of ice and snow. No plant life is to be seen, while in reality the Arctic has lots of vegetation.

 Various polar animals will have a cameo: huskies, polar bears, polar foxes, lemmings, seals, walruses, whales, orcas, belugas, narwhals,... and inaccurately, penguins.  Expect a reference to the fact that there is no sun for months, yet "aurora borealis" ("northern lights") can be seen in the sky, no matter what time of the year it is. As a result, the Inuit will go to sleep "for several months" in their igloo, as if they are physically able to have a winter sleep like animals do.

 And, of course, the Arctic is Canada See  Outside North America, people often confuse Canadians with Americans, or when they speak French, with Frenchmen. To be fair, even Americans sometimes forget that Canada also has a large French-speaking population.

 Canadians are often depicted as Mounties,  The country is full of snow, pine woods, moose, bears, and beavers.

 Some architectural monuments that need to be shown whenever Canada is mentioned are the CN Tower and the Skydome. The only other locations that exist in popular culture are Toronto, Quebec, Winnipeg, Nova Scotia, British Colombia, Vancouver, and Montréal.

 Canadians are obsessed with maple leaves and maple syrup. They all eat Kraft dinner (macaroni and cheese).

 All Canadian men listen to    Québécois, on the other hand, tend to be portrayed by English speakers as being a bunch of separatist  Almost inevitably, the Canadian will be white, and if they aren't French will have English or Scottish family name.

 Interestingly enough, Canada is often portrayed as being more primitive and close to nature than the "modern" United States. Yet, most of their laws (secularism, gay marriage, universal healthcare, mosaic culture, etc.) are far more progressive and liberal than those of the United States.

 During the 1960s and 1970s, Canada was also known for harboring many young Americans who dodged the draft.

 The United StatesSee also acceptable political targets, america takes over the world, eagleland, and only in america.

 To many people (and not only Americans themselves),   Positive stereotypes about the United States are generally that people see it as a "land of opportunities". The pioneer spirit is still strong and people have the feeling that even "an average guy or gal" can make it there. Foreigners also have the impression that, because of this, everybody in the U.S.A. is incredibly wealthy. Unfortunately, this is  Another positive image about the U.S.A. is that other countries (used to) look up to it. The United States was the first colony to become independent and introduce the first foundation of a modern democratic constitution. This was an inspiration for many other countries who became independent in the centuries after. The American constitution guarantees liberties and freedom of speech that go further than most other countries, even democratic ones. Thus, the U.S.A. became "the land of the free", symbolized by the Statue of Liberty, which welcomed all immigrants who fled from persecution in their home country.

 Another image many foreigners have of Americans is that they are extremely extroverted, yet appear to be very genteel. They will act very friendly and enthusiastic, smile, say hello and goodbye ("Oh, hiiiiiii!", "Have a nice day!",...), show involvement in what you say ("Oh rrrrrreallly?", "Oh my goooooood!"), but it comes across as if they don't mean it half of the time.

 A stereotype about Americans that has gotten under a lot of strain since the second half of the 20th century is that of the "heroic American". During the 19th and early 20th century, Americans were depicted as cowboys who save the day, a stereotype fed by  In other countries, Americans are often seen as people who are scared out of proportion of anything. Historically, they have been frightened of religious persecution, Native Americans, Afro-Americans,  Outside the U.S., a stereotypical image of the dumb, fat, lazy, ignorant, self-important, decadent, prudish, and clueless white American exists. Most of these images are based on American fast food culture which has spawned a lot of morbidly obese people. Of course, in foreign countries sitcom characters like     In (beat 'em up) videogames, American fighters (generally) come in one of two flavours, adhering to the distinct types presented by the  When playing sports: all Americans will be playing baseball, American football, or basketball, usually with some cheerleaders jumping on the side. All these sports originated in the United States and remain far more popular than soccer, which is universally beloved in every country, except in the U.S, where many of the worlds' most iconic soccer players are almost obscure.

 If you have to emphasize that you're in the United States, don't forget to reference the following clichés: the bald eagle, apple pie, baseball, basketball, American football, a ticker-tape parade, corn, (Thanksgiving) turkeys, skyscrapers, prairies, coyotes, canyons, the Star Spangled Banner, Mount Rushmore, The White House, the Statue of Liberty, the Hollywood sign,  Old stereotypes show them as slaves, working in cotton fields and singing bluesy songs. If they are a bit better off they are portrayed as servants, butlers, cooks, shoe shiners, or  Modern stereotypes depict them as either being jazz musicians, gospel choir singers, baptists with loud and punctuated speech, basketball players, dancers, stand-up comics, rappers, soul singers with large Afro-hair, gang members, pimps, and prostitutes. They always talk in jive and are usually cool and sassy.

 Throughout most of the 19th and 20th century, the USA was depicted in foreign popular culture as a place where all white men were racists and/or members of the  Historically, they have been called "Indians", a word that is still used outside the U.S.A. In the United States themselves, the word is no longer considered politically correct and they are referred to as "Native Americans or American Indians."

 In previous centuries,  All Native Americans speak  A more positive depiction of Native Americans that became the norm since the 1960s is the  Other stereotypical images are Indian women carrying their papoose ("child") in a bag on their back,  In popular culture, Native Americans are virtually a historical artifact. Stories set in the modern age hardly show them, except as proprietors of  Native American characters also show up a good deal in beat 'em ups, and are almost without exception presented as being     When the rest of the country remembers       Everyone in   There are, of course, no stereotypes of people from  Apparently, a lot of people think that         Depending on what part of   "Hi, we're visiting     If the American South is portrayed in a positive light it will be because of a   Typically, all white people are stereotyped as primitive, slow-witted and uneducated gap toothed slack-jawed yokel  There are several types of Southern white stereotypes:

 Of course, there are black people in the South too. In   People from          Depending on what show you're watching,      Rhode Island has the worst drivers in America, coffee addicts (Dunkin' Donuts to be exact), cannot give directions, think a 45-minute drive is a daylong trip, and have the most corrupt government that you'd ever see... it'd make       