

A state under the effective control of another state. Technically independent and in charge of its own affairs, but in reality if it tries anything without the say-so of the government of the nation in charge of it its liable to end up occupied again. An old term for this is Satrapies. Calling something a vassal state, client state or satellite state is another.

The nation trying to break away and regain true independence may be a plot point. Normally part of the empire (especially if it's a hegemonic empire), or the federation. the kingdom is usually a stand-alone thing.

This isn't always entirely one-sided; one reason for a state becoming a puppet state may have been in exchange for the larger state watching its back in case of war. Whether or not the puppet (or the empire) is happy with this state of affairs is another matter.

If the state is nominally democratic or republican and holds elections, and those are controlled by the parent state, see corrupt politician.

 Most countries in  The Zeon home colonies at Legrange Point 2 become one after the original  In  In  In  The Ministry of Magic in  Komarr in  In the  In   Both  Crimea was suzerain to Begnion in  In one of the  A major part of most Paradox games like  Can also be established in the  A hegemony is when a nation has dominating influence over the foreign and military policy of other countries within its region.

 After the Spanish-American war, newly-independent Cuba became a  Most of the Central American  The satellite states of the Soviet Union. The most frequently cited are those in the Warsaw Pact (Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria), though most of them at various points in the Cold War tried to exercise their own policies away from the Soviet model - sometimes they got clobbered with tanks for it (Hungary in 1956, Czechoslovakia in 1968) and sometimes they got away with it (Romania under Nicolae Ceaușescu developed comparitively close ties with the West and even defied the Soviet-led boycott of the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles, Hungary's "Goulash Communism" after the '56 crushing that implemented some elements of free-market economics and comparatively better human rights).

 Some of the nations conquered by the Nazis during   The client states of the Roman Republic and later Empire.

 The Indian princely states of British India.

 The Philippine Islands were a fairly successful example of this despite the brutal Pacification Campaigns. This seems to have been because of a string of highly successful proconsuls (including General MacArthur who to some degree  For that matter, every US State is theoretically this. At some times in history it has been feared that the Federal government would reduce them to provinces, and at other times, it was feared that the states had  Historically the Kingdom of Ryukyu was this to Japan, or more specifically the Satsuma, the most powerful feudal lords of southern Kyushu. Following the Meiji Restoration and the Satsuma Rebellion, it was annexed outright to become the modern day prefecture of Okinawa.

 Manchukuo under " The former colonies of  The German Empire tried to set these up throughout Eastern Europe and via its plan for  The Irish Free State created by the Anglo-Irish treaty was a British puppet state until 1948, although some nationalists argue it still is to this day.

 The "Bantustans" in South Africa, ridiculously-shaped and economically unviable territories chiefly existing so that the Apartheid regime could assign a new nationality to the blacks they were trying to disenfranchise. Officially they were governed by blacks but those in charge were paid large amounts of money by the South African government. Four of them (Transkei, Bophuthatswana, Venda, and Ciskei) were officially granted independence but no one except South Africa recognized them. With the fall of the apartheid regime they were abolished and said lands were reintergrated back into South Africa.

