Gerrorf moi lan'!Technically it's the South West Country but that doesn't have the same ring to it. A crucial note before we begin; in the UK "Cider" refers exclusively to Hard Cider with alcohol in it, anything else is called apple juice.

The West Country is the informal term for the area of the united kingdom that encompasses the counties of cornwall, Devon, Dorset, Somerset, Gloucestershire, Wiltshire and Bristol. Known for being very rural with towns and cities being small and spread out (resulting in very poor support for the Labour Party, who came fifth in European elections) As such it's mostly depicted on TV as farmer towns where the inhabitants wear wellies and tweed and speak with thick somerset accents, even though the majority of people living in the South West actually speak perfectly standard English. Known to everyone else as "Mummerset". Expect plenty of 'oo-ar's!' to be heard and some cunning wit or action to follow. Was known as "Zedland" to wits in the 19th century, owing to the way the accent turns S to Z ("Oi be drinkin' zoider!") Generally a laid-back set of counties too, especially considering the amount of comedians the area has produced. Bristol is the only major city in the region  and as such is the focal point for most events of notice.

Known for producing huge amounts of cider and scrumpy, cheddar cheese, clotted cream and Cornish pasties. Naturally, they are all consumed in greater quantities down there than in the rest of the UK. Also gave us the glastonbury festival too and also is the location of Stonehenge in Wiltshire. Also, yorkshireman patrick stewart trained as an actor in this area. Weston-super-Mare in Somerset was also fairly well known for its pier by the beach and was an icon in the West Country; the pier was seriously damaged by a fire in 2009, but has reopened as of late 2010. Is also quite popular amongst engineers due to having such marvels like the Severn Bridges and the Clifton Suspension Bridge in Bristol, the fact Bristol also had an important role in the Aerospace Industry and helped build Concorde also helps, Concorde's last flight ended up returning it to Bristol, where it now stands at Filton Airport until a permanent museum can be built. The local airport also started doing flights from there to New York City a few years back. Bristol also is somewhat notorious for its relationship with pirates because the Bristol Channel coast was a major sea-trade region during the age of pirates, and the coast was a notoriously dangerous for shipwrecks (not always accidental), so some of the speech is derived from pirate jargon (Plymouth and Cornwall also have the pirate association, since many pirates came out of Plymouth and Cornwall's economy was once 90% reliant on smuggling!). Has recently had some of the city renovated and tidied up. Word of advice though: Avoid Knowle West unless you absolutely have to go there, although that area is improving.

Plymouth and most of West Devon are liberally drenched in references to Sir Francis Drake, British National Hero of the 16th Century and the last interesting person to come out of the county (apart from actor twins ); Plymouth is also the site of the Mayflower Steps and the departure of various soon-to-be-Americans from the country.Generally West Country folk share more of a rivalry with the welsh than the rest of England. Part of this is due to the allegations that the Welsh were unhappy with the fact that the first Severn Bridge had its toll booth on the English side, prompting the second bridge to have the booth on the Welsh side.

Pretty cheesed off that gordon brown's government imposed a 10% price increase on cider, as if that was unexpected. Luckily that hike was scrapped because of the impending elections in order to save other pieces of legislation.

  Popular rock band  The Wurzels: Somerset band who make songs about cider, farming and the West Country in general, usually perform with a pint of cider in their hands. Popular amongst the West Country and also amongst university students for obvious reasons.

  Blackbeard: The famous buccaneer was also born in Bristol.

 Jenson Button: 2009   Justin Lee Collins: Another comedian who was born in Bristol.

  Jethro: And another comedian, this one born in Cornwall.

 Russell Howard:  Lee Evans:  Edgar Wright: The director of     Since  Michael Adams, Britain's current #1 chess player, was born and brought up in Cornwall, and now lives in Somerset.

 Fictional example: Bomber from   The moles of  How could we forget Archie Leach (AKA  The members of  Stephen Merchant makes yet another comedian, co-writer of  Although   James Purefoy, who played  Phil Harding from  The novelist and poet  Most working class characters from series/ Robert Newton, English actor, whose portrayal of Long John Silver in 