Western Europe With Northern Europe, seen as the home of advanced technology, sophisticated culture, and   In the U.S., there are essentially two sets of stereotypes about Europe:

Andorra Best known as mini state and tax haven. And they have good sky resorts.

Austria  Austrians are often confused with Germans and Swiss people.

 Just like the Germans, people from the Austrian county Tyrol will be portrayed wearing Tyrolean hats and lederhosen and their women having dirndls. All Tyroleans will be drinking beer, eating sausages and playing tuba.

 Historically the country brings up images of the once very powerful Austrian-Hungarian Empire. The most famous royal of this time period in popular culture is Empress Sissi, made famous by the film franchise with  In the late 2000s Austria also became notorious for two horrible crimes where people were kept in captivity for many years without anybody noticing anything strange: the kidnapping of Natasha Kampusch case and the Jozef Fritzl scandal.

 Early 20th century Austrian painters like Egon Schiele and Gustav Klimt are also world renowned.

 Thanks to the fame of the muscular movie stars   Historically, the Austrians had the reputation of being the  In Romania and the Balkans, Austrians had been seen until not long ago as haughty and aristocratic. Romania and the Balkan countries don't exactly have good memories of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, after all.

 Vienna is the only location that exists in foreign eyes. The city is home to the Waltz, Viennese coffee and tea, Vienna sausages and the Wiener oboe. Apart from that Tyrol and the Vienna Woods (Belgium The bilingual communities and eternal troubles between Flemings and Walloons often mystify foreigners. The complexity of Belgium's government often leads to confused ideas about their political situation. In fiction, Belgium is sometimes portrayed as a French-speaking country, even though a majority in the country speaks Dutch and there is even a small German speaking community. This also explains why foreigners often confuse Belgians with Frenchmen, Dutchmen, or Germans. No wonder this surreal country is the birth place of painter    Belgium has produced many internationally famous painters, most notably in Flanders, like the Flemish Primitives (Jan Van Eyck, Hans Memling, Rogier Van Der Weyden,...),   Belgians are often shown eating French fries ( British people often assume Belgium is boring. This mostly stems from the country's notoriously bad bureaucratism, the dreary weather, and the ugly, monotonous urban landscape.

 Cycling is the most romanticized sport in Belgium. Men cycling through mud, bad weather, and over steep hills and stony roads only to return home for a cool beer and some French fries is part of the national culture. One of the greatest cyclists ever was Belgian: Eddy Merckx.

 Two essential monuments that always need to be in frame whenever Belgium is shown in popular culture are the Atomium and the statue of Manneken Pis, both located in Brussels.

France Especially in the U.S.A and England.  France also has an association with love, romance, and sex.  The archetypal Frenchmen is usually caricatured as a dirty, lazy, unshaven, curly moustached man wearing a beret, striped sweaters, smoking a cigarette, and carrying a baguette under the arm.  French are often called  French accents are also enormously popular in comedies,  In (beat 'em up) videogames, French characters are often depicted as  French painters are also a popular stereotype.  Whenever arthouse movies or independent movies are spoofed they are often French (spoofing Jean-Luc Godard, Creator/FrançoisTruffaut or any other  Frenchmen are often cast as cooks, onion sellers, proprietors of restaurants and/or cafés. They will enjoy eating baguettes, croissants, tarts, cheese, and drink wine. Sometimes they are also depicted as having an eccentric taste: eating snails (escargots) and frog legs. This is also why the French are often nicknamed   If the French play sport, it will be pétanque/jeux de boules or cycling in the Tour de France, which is the most famous European cycling contest world wide.

 If a Frenchman sings, it's always Corsica If Corsica is ever mentioned, expect it to be treated like Italy with  All Corsicans are  Just like other Italian isles, Corsica has a bloody history with uncountable vendettas and feuds.

 And watch out for the Corsican bushes ("maquis"), because robbers or terrorists might be hiding there. (Or you might get lost.)

 Within France, Corsica used to be stereotyped with the word  Most people outside the French-speaking world know Corsica solely for being the birth place of Germany  In more recent times, especially in British comedy, the conscientious post- Germans have a reputation for being highly organized, ruthlessly efficient, bureaucratic, and deadly serious to the point that foreigners assume they lack a sense of humor. (See  If Germans are depicted having fun, they are usually wearing Tyrolean hats, lederhosen, drinking beer, playing the tuba, and celebrating  Germany, just like Russia, is also a popular setting for fairy tales. This mostly stems from  German music comes in several variations: deeply serious and sentimental romantic classical music (  All Germans are named Fritz, Franz, Otto, Gunther, Hermann, Adolf, Wilhelm, Ernst, or Hans. Women are named Helga, Olga, Gretel, Brunhilda, or Nina. (Needless to say, many of these names are not that popular in Germany nowadays.) Their surnames will often have a  Germany is also the birthplace of cars. Since their invention the country has become closely associated with highly polished but efficient cars driving over the  In (beat 'em up) videogames, Germans are often depicted as  Germans also have an unfortunate reputation for producing the most eye-wateringly depraved pornography, catering to the most deviant (or just plain weird) fetishes.

 Germany consists of Ireland  The   The most ancient stereotypes about Ireland show a country stuck in Celtic tradition. There are no major cities, only small farms and villages in green landscapes with lots of hills. All walls are made from stones simply stacked upon each other. Celtic crosses will be seen everywhere. A horse-drawn caravan or covered wagon will be the only means of travel.

 The 19th century also brought several enduring stereotypes about Irishmen. They are all poor farmers with lots of sheep.     Irish folk music is world famous as well. Expect people playing the fiddle, dancing  Irish literature is also internationally renowned. Expect a reference to  Ireland is also the ideal location to make a limerick (in Limerick, of course) or to notice  Other dominant Irish stereotypes involve Italy Italy is synonymous with style and for having beautiful countryside filled with picturesque villages, ancient Roman ruins, and olive groves. The same goes for their equally stylish paintings, sculptures, architecture, poetry, novels, music, fashion, hair dressing, violins (Stradivari), motors (Vespa), and cars (Ferrari, Lamborghini, Alfa Romeo, Fiat, Lancia,...). Two of the most refined and admired Golden Ages of Culture took place in Italy:  In huge contrast with it's reputation for beauty and sophistication Italy also has its fair share of negative stereotypes.

 Italians are often depicted speaking with a heavy accent in which the schwa is inserted after consonant-final words into their speech, leading to sentences like  When Italian men aren't depicted as young sex symbols they will be middle aged men with curly black hair and equally curly moustaches. In American media, all Italians are Sicilians, and all Sicilians have black hair, brown eyes, and olive skin. Very much   If a scene takes place in Italy, it will be either  In (beat 'em up) videogames, Italians are  Italians do strongly believe that everybody envies their easy life, good weather, low cost of living, sea and snowy mountains by the step. So when Italians fail at something on a international scale (sports, war,...), all foreigners are blamed for "conspiring together against poor Italy, which never is given the time to rise on its feet before some other big country bashes it down again".

 Italian cinema has four variations: neo-realistic dramas (Vittorio de Sica,  The Vatican Somewhat of a subtrope of Italy — there can be some substantial overlap, especially in historical works (even though the last three popes — and, of course, the first — were not Italian).

 Internationally, the Vatican is known for only two things:    There are generally a few Liechtenstein A mini state mostly known as tax haven and for the export of false teeth.

Luxembourg The most common stereotype associated with this country is that it's almost never stereotyped, due to the fact that is so small and easily overlooked or forgotten. If it is shown, it will presented as nothing more than a boring village full of bored-looking people surrounded by empty fields.

 The unique fact that it's a Grand Duchy is the only thing it's internationally famous for.

 Yet, just like the Swiss, Luxembourgers are known to be the bankers of Europe.

 During the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s European radio listeners knew it for Malta Best known for its knights.

Monaco Since Monaco has a Prince and is featured in many tabloid stories about the royals, people seem to assume that it's a glamorous place, which it   If Monaco is depicted in popular culture, characters are always in a casino, on a yacht, or on the racetrack.

 The native Monégasque make up just over 20% of the 30,000 inhabitants of the tiny principality and are stereotyped as keeping  As a warm, sunny tax haven, it's frequently home to the The Netherlands The Netherlands is often referred to as    For centuries, the Netherlands was called a  In Europe, Dutch people are often depicted as being arrogant and bluntly direct know-it-alls. They talk loud and are very opinionated about every topic. A Dutchman/woman always knows what others do wrong and how they should correct their behaviour. Instead of remaining discreet about it, to spare other people's feelings, or at least discuss it in a polite, tactful manner, they simply shout out what's on their mind, insulting everybody. Their preachiness is usually attributed to their mostly Protestant/Calvinist heritage. So it comes to no surprise that the International Court of Justice is located in The Hague.

 Just like the Scottish, they are known to be thrifty about money ( Dutch art is world famous and has produced some iconic and instantly recognizable artists. Painters like  Dutchmen are also known for being ubiquitous tourists, and have a penchant for caravans.

 They also enjoy to go somewhere by bike. Bicycle tourism is very common, compared to other European countries where there's hardly enough place to go cycling.

 The Belgian singer  The Dutch are stereotypically tall. Throughout the 20th century in most so-called advanced countries, due to better nutrition and medical care, the average height increased; about in the 1970s, in most of these countries people stopped getting taller and started to get wider, to the extent that most of these countries have serious obesity problems; the Dutch, however, keep getting taller.

Portugal Often confused with Spaniards and thus a lot of the Spanish stereotypes will also be applied to them.  Portuguese are generally known as explorers, thanks to Vasco da Gama, Henry the Navigator, Bartolomeo Diaz, Pedro Alvares Cabral, and Ferdinand Magellan, among others.

 References to their wine ( Portugal suffered under a dictatorship from 1932 to 1974. The conservative regime of Presidents Antonio Salazar and Marcelo Caetano held back many technical and modern innovations that other European countries did adapt. By the time the country became a democracy again, it had so many technical stuff to catch up with that for a long time it caused the Portuguese to be viewed as primitive and hopelessly stuck in dated traditions.

 Brazilian people seem to think that the Portuguese are either dumb or close-minded.

 More rarely, Portuguese people are considered more taciturn and fatalistic than other southern European populations, in part because of Fado music (fado means  In terms of regions:

 A Venezuelan stereotypical depiction of Portuguese people is that they are all industrious people who run small businesses, usually Mom & Pop stores and bakeries, and every food store in the country is managed by them (in real life, most of the food distribution chain is indeed managed by people of Portuguese descent).

San Marino Best known as mini state and tax haven.

Spain Foreigners often confuse Spaniards with Latin-Americans (  The most enduring image about Spain is the bull. According to many stereotypes, Spaniards are all bullfighters and/or love to watch these fights in a huge arena. They may also participate in the  The  Spain is also often stereotyped as being a Catholic nation. Even though for most of the Middle Ages it was a Muslim country (See  Many stereotypes about Spain date back to the 16th and 17th century when the Spanish Empire was the most powerful country in the world. Except references to the Spanish Armada,  Modern stereotypes about Spain depict the country as a sunny beach holiday destination, where people have fiëstas and siëstas all day and night long.

 A negative stereotype surrounding Spain are the terrorist attacks by the Basque separatist movement E.T.A.

 Whenever Spanish people are cooking or eating, it will be one of the following dishes: olives, oranges, tortillas, sangría, ham, tapas, or paella.

 The old Latin-American stereotype for Spaniards, at least in comedy, tends to be  Also, they really,  Spanish painting has also produced some iconic artists, like Diego Velazquez,  In the Netherlands Spain is traditionally seen as the home of Switzerland  The Swiss are seen as very punctual and orderly, thanks to their stable government, ability to maintain neutral during foreign conflicts, and reputation for quality watchmaking, both with cuckoo clocks and wrist watches. The famous Swiss pocket knives are also an example of Swiss precision and punctuality.

 Thanks to their famously secretive banking system, the Swiss are also caricatured as  In Europe, the Swiss are thought to be dim-witted, slow people who really like to take their time. This is in great contrast with the precision of their famous watches and cuckoo clocks.

  The Swiss eat nothing but Swiss cheese, fondue, and chocolate, and all their dogs are Saint Bernards.

  The only Swiss cities that exist in the public consciousness are Zürich and Geneva. The latter city is famous for being the birthplace of   The Swiss have United Kingdom A particular confusing country for foreigners, because they are never quite sure which countries/regions belong to it and under which of the many names it should be addressed? Usually, England and the English are the point of reference and Scotland and Wales are seen as separate countries, which will be adressed as individual nations when necessary, despite the fact that none of them are officially independent from England. To set things straight: the United Kingdom as a whole is England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland. When referring to Great Britain, it's just England, Wales, and Scotland.

   The   In videogames, English   The British are also well known for founding clubs, specifically gentlemen's clubs. They will frequently come together and have dignified, sometimes elitarian meetings, followed by group activities in which they share their common interests (sports, hunting, playing cards, reading,...). Expect members to smoke a pipe and wear tweed jackets.

   When Britons are playing sport they will be playing cricket, rugby, or darts to make absolutely clear that they are British. Soccer and tennis are popular as well, but generally not British enough in foreign fiction, unless the tennis is at  Despite being generally portrayed as polite and sophisticated, Britons can sometimes be depicted as more degrading or less classy characters:

 In many countries, especially on the European continent, the British  The English are often called "eccentric". This is partly caused by their driving on the left side of the road and the use of imperial measurements, which no other country in Europe (still) has. They are also the only European country to have a unique version of Christianity as the official state religion: Anglicanism. The usual explanation for the "British eccentric behaviour" is that they have lived for centuries on an isolated island, separated from the rest of the European continent, which caused them to act different from other Europeans. They haven't been invaded since 1066, which might also explain why so many historic traditions have remained intact and unchanged. For instance, judges and lawyers are still required to wear wigs in court, which stems from the 17th century. (See also  Culturally, Britain is world famous for producing literary classics in the fields of novels, poetry, and plays. London's West End is viewed as a revered theatrical Mecca, and Hollywood actors will often appear on the London stage (with much fanfare) to increase their credibility.  The British film industry also seems to consist of seven types of movies, practically their own genre: 1) costume dramas set in previous centuries, usually about the differences between the higher and lower classes 2) socially conscious tragicomedies set in Thatcherite Britain, often in a working-class environment 3) detective films 4) Shakespearean adaptations 5) films set in World War Two glorifying   In some fiction like The Simpsons' episode "The Regina Monologues", Great Britain is depicted as if it still has the death penalty, which is of course carried out in medieval style by beheading someone in the Tower of London. The irony of it all is that Great Britain has abolished the death penalty while the United States still has it!

  The Union Flag (Union Jack) itself is something of a fashion icon, and due to it's highly recognisable star-burst pattern, the flag is frequently used to brand the clothing, accessories, and home decor of British characters in popular culture.

  If an animal is depicted as being British, it will be an English bulldog.

 Stereotypes within England:

Scotland       All Scots have red or yellow brown hair. Men wear sideburns and/or a beard.

 Every Scot has a last name starting with the word "Mac" or "Mc". Typical first names are Gordon, Donald, Duncan, Hamish, or Angus.

 Much like the English, Scottish cuisine is not held in high regard in other countries. In fact: even the English seem disgusted about some of the Scottish national dishes, most notably  Scottish liquor on the other hand is universally popular. Whisky (spelled as "whiskey" in Ireland, making the distinction) and especially "scotch" are their most universal export product.

 Whenever you're in Scotland, expect to see some thistles (their national flower), green grassy hills, huge lakes, a variety of sheep, castles, and walls made out of stone cobbles. Only two cities will be mentioned in popular culture: Glasgow and Edinburgh. The only other location worth mentioning is Loch Ness, so that the  The Scottish legal system has also gained some notoriety, with a third verdict apart from "Guilty or "Innocent", named " The Scottish accent is also distinctive and has been imitated — poorly- by many foreigners. Typical  Scots are frequently typecast as poets. This may stem from historical examples such as  In Great Britain, Scotland is also frequently associated with  Scots are also dismissed as being nothing else but a bunch of drunk and violent savages living close to nature. In reality, Scotland has produced quite some notable scientists and inventors who had a positive effect on human history, including Alexander Graham Bell (inventor of the telephone), Kirkpatrick Macmillan (inventor of the bicycle), James Clerk Maxwell (discoverer of electromagnetic radiation), Joseph Lister (introduced antiseptic surgery), Alexander Fleming (discoverer of penicilline), James Watt (inventor of the steam engine), and John Logie Baird (inventor of tv). Some of the world's most famous British authors were Scottish: Wales  Welshmen are often typecast as being unusually talented at singing.

 They are also depicted being obsessed with rugby and own so many sheep that some foreigners have  A more modern image about Wales is that the country has a lot of coal mines.

Northern Ireland The  Before the sectarian conflicts broke the economy, Northern Ireland was known for being very industrialized compared to the rest of the island.

 Since the second half of the 20th century, it's mostly known for  On a more positive note, a trip to Northern Ireland in fiction is not complete without a visit to the amazing Giant's Causeway, or the Bushmills whiskey distillery.

Northern Europe The oldest and most enduring stereotype about Northern Europe goes back to the Viking Age. All Danes, Norwegians, and Swedish are depicted as  Northern Europe is considered to have more modern morals than the rest of the continent, but has less industrial production.

 A typical phenomenon is the weather. Most of the year the days will be short and the nights long. The  Up in the northern regions of Norway and Sweden live the Lapp people (now considered a derogatory term and preferably named the Sami people). They will always be seen in the company of reindeers.

 And, you guessed it: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Finland will always be confused with each other. Usually, all countries in Northern Europe are called Denmark  Also stereotyped as heavy drinkers and party animals who love to go to clubs.

 And they might be Dutch, depending on  Danes also have a reputation for being  According to other Scandinavians, Danes don't speak; they merely mumble.

 According to  Most foreigners know of only three things about Denmark: It's the land of Vikings,  Denmark also has a reputation for making small snacks, like the  And, of course, every Dane has a Danish dog for a pet.

Finland The  All Finns go to the sauna.

 They all have knives. Or so the Scandinavians say.

 In Russia, they are seen as slow-witted and slow-talking,  Were capable of giving the Russians an extremely nasty surprise in  Finns are often depicted as culturally identical to the other Nordic countries, although the Finnish language is unrelated to theirs and Finland technically isn't even part of Scandinavia.

 Like the British, Finland has a reputation for  On a lighter note, Finland is also home to  Some Finns can also be die-hard Iceland   Reykjavik is seen as a party city by some, although it's extremely small by the standards of other European capitals.

 Icelanders all like fishing, eat shark routinely, and like to visit hot springs and volcanoes. They are friendly and all know each other because the island has such a small population. They may actually still be Vikings, although the Viking age ended at least eight centuries ago.

 Their  Some mention will invariably be made about Iceland being "beyond the tree-line", in reference to its polar location.

Norway Just like the other Scandinavian countries  Another stereotype is that all Norwegians are leather and spikes-wearing black metal fans. They will be seen as pagans with a disturbing interest in Viking mythology and a penchant for church-burning.

 No image of Norway is complete without a scene taking place nearby some fjords. Edvard Grieg's music for  Norway is known for its fishing industry and particularly its violent maelstroms. It is very likely that a ship will pass through one off the Norwegian coast and the crew will end up in a hut in a small fishing village, tended to by friendly locals. Today, this stereotype is  Because of their huge fishing and petroleum industry, Norway is supposed to be a very rich country, but everything is super-expensive. Especially alcohol.

 Traditionally, Norway has been the Scandinavian country with the strictest morality codes, because of a strong layman-movement. Expect this to be shown in some productions, or at least spoofed.

 Norwegians all enjoy skiing and langlaufing, of course.

 A general stereotype associated with Norwegians is that they are very moody, inward-looking, and quiet. This may have something to do with the weather. It may come as no surprise that painter Edvard Munch, famous for  The country is also known for petroleum and organizing the annual Nobel Peace Prizes in Oslo, which are handed out by the Swedish monarch. (Because Swedish inventor Alfred Nobel wanted to give his neighbouring country the honor of organizing the event.)

 And the woods are full of trolls, according to folklore.

Sweden Of all Scandinavian or countries in Northern Europe, Sweden is the most prominent stereotyping target.

 The Swedish singsong way speaking is often spoofed making use of  Swedish men are often depicted as blonde, dumb, well-built boytoys. Usually they are ski instructors or handymen. They will always be named Sven or Lars.

 Swedish women are usually portrayed as tall, slender, blonde and blue-eyed sex bombs, inspired by real-life blonde Swedes like  Sweden also seems to be known for having little to no sexual or nudity taboos, as seen on  Swedish cultural fixtures figure into stereotypes such as  This European postcard sarcastically depicts the Swedes  Apart from humans, Sweden is home to thousands of moose.

 Sweden also shares the dubious distinction of inspiring expressions in other languages:

